10.5: Middlesea Meals

excerpt from acclaimed 1880 mealbook Pasti Mezziterreni (Middlesea Meals). The book was written by world-traveller Josforo Sant'Angelo, youngest son of the last Marksman of Cremuna, and it popularised the use of autobiographical anecdotes to separate and give context for the various recipes within.

Cypriot Pan-Farrago (Χαλουμ Κομαρ)

Unless you have the good fortune to hail from the sea-Masreck (although I hear the Cappatian staddenzen have a similar cheese, there made of course with cow's milk), you will need to content yourself to brine-stored Cypriot cheese which, while perfectly appetising in this traditional mélange, is unlikely to match the exquisite meal I took by the sea after a day spent among the ruins of Knossos. One might object that I must simply have been swept up in grandeur, carried along by the weight of aeons behind me; for my part I am inclined to credit the chef.

Wares (for six)
- olive oil
- 4 large tartover [potatoes] per cubos
- several stalk-onions, chopped, bulb and stem apart
- fine jarraspepper spice
- 1п round of Cypriot cheese or other curd per frangos
- 6 eggs

Method
First heat some oil in a broad pan and fry the tartover over gentle fire for a quarter-hour, often stirred (until the pieces crispen and the flesh becomes soft). Add in the stalk-onion bulb and the jarraspepper and cook a little longer.

Subside the mix and heat more oil in the pan, on which fry the cheese until golden. Bring together the tartover and cheese and fully involve while including salt and drypepper in whichever amount suits.

Divide the farrago by covered bowls and hold near the fire, then crack the eggs into the seasoned pan and fry as desired. Finally place the eggs atop each dish and scatter with the rest of the stalk-onion.