101.5: New Urban Mesh
 
The New Urban Mesh was an alliance of autonomous cities in Northwest Europe in the nineteenth century. Among its members were London, Conster, Axbane, Pentrose, Amstel, Anvers and Gant.

History
The Mesh emerged contemporaneously with similar political structures elsewhere, such as the Riverine Cities along the Danaw. This rise of such federacies of city-states has been attributed to the rapid population growth and expansion of cities in the run-up to the Global Workshop period. Several of the Mesh's cities were simultaneously also part of pre-existing polities (for example, Axbane and Pentrose were never legally independent from Borland).

The cities of the Mesh are popularly associated with wheeling-and-dealing policy, as well as aggressive and global use of espionage. However, the extent to which the Mesh was (for example) able to steer politics in the East to their trade benefit is likely overestimated.

In the late nineteenth century (ca. 1890), London led the Mesh to unite politically with the Drengot Collusion, at the time a nascent alliance of the French polities of Norman Kent, Paris and Burgundy. Whether it is more correct to say that the Mesh was subsumed into the Collusion, or that the Mesh took control of the Collusion, has long been a topic of heated debate.

References
Mr Desarden, Prince Consort (1968), a film based on the 1887 scandal around James Desarden, London's ambassador to Nackon Day. The affair is widely thought to have been politically motivated and a product of direct meddling from the Mesh.