11.5: 14C Manoscard Music

excerpt from 1976 scholastic quire Shallmews and Fithels: the influence of post-Tetrarchic Hymnal Practice on Popular Music, a textbook of musical history written by clavierman Morency Rivellerson through the Tommarth University Faculty of Domain History's primers in collaboration with the city's Lady Maud Orchestra Public Indreck.

…in the 'farmer duke' tradition of folktales whose interstitial melodies and songs constitute some of the very earliest extant examples of this lineage of musical notation; thanks to recent archival work at the Academy in Santrafew (more about which see chapter 8), we can stage modern performances of this pieces on replica instruments and hear just what the fair-goer of the fourteenth century would have heard.

Nonetheless, the character of these pieces draws upon yet earlier innovations about which we can only make educated guesses. What to make, for example, of the shared use of the manoscard scale [an octatonic scale being the union of the major and minor pentatonic scales] in many of these works? Traditionally we conceive of the manoscard as a Burgund innovation of the late twelfth century, beginning with hymns performed in the religious communities of the eastern Luberon region (and in particular the Sassenine monastery overlooking Manosque, whence the name).

By the time we do have evidence of manoscard melody in contemporary popular music, we see use of the scale across western Europe as far north as Mondwell [Anglesey] and as far south as Bagliemmo [Palermo], so it is difficult to determine its true homeland. The presumption that it radiated from Luberon through Burgundy and outward through the thirteenth century is as well-evidenced as any alternative hypothesis, which is to say not particularly convincingly. Some scholars have argued that the direction of influence was in fact the reverse, and the scale was brought to Manosque by a young monk who had it from his childhood village. As neither the origins nor even the birthnames of the…