111.5: Battle of Rexam (1483)

The Battle of Rexam (Merch Feight at Rexam /fɛʃt ət ˈɾɛksəm/, Cambric Brwydr Car Vanteł /ˈbɾuː.də kaː vənˈtɛɬ/) was a major combat between Markland [~Mercia] and the Kingdom of Britain [~Wales+] which took place in 1483 during the Wars of Fealty.

Rexam (formerly in the Merch language spelt Wrexham) had been a contested town on the border of Wales and Markland almost from the moment the latter was founded. In 1301, in an act which reignited the Mallor Wars, King Andrew II sacked the town.

The relatively-new Kingdom of Britain (formed of Wales and its outlying tallaths [provinces], along with Kernow [Brittany] and Sodrick [Man and the Hebrides]) started from a position of strength, and managed to extract many concessions from Markland in the early years of the wars. This culminated in a decisive victory at the Battle of Rexam, where the last Duke of Chester was killed.

After this battle, Britain was able to take lasting control of the area around Rexam (though the attack on the city of Chester shortly thereafter was rebuffed). The polity then managed to recuse itself from the continued conflicts of the Wars of Fealty; the rest of the polities of Albion would remain embroiled for another thirty years.

The battle and its aftermath were portrayed in 1931 work "Children of the Battle of Rexam" (released originally in Cambric as Pa Ðywdon y Plant Car Vanteł "What the Children of Car Vantel Said"), a fictionalised account of the three orphaned children of the Duke of Chester written by schoolteacher Jon Paldreth.