112.5: North American History Quiz

from the 1930 book Prove your Knowledge!, a part of the series Games for Sorties and Excourses. This was a collection of casual party games compiled and published by Merch couple Anna and Ralph Highwater through the Royal Tommarth Castinghouse.

History XI: The Novomund (answers on sheet 236)

1. Which emperor of Tavancy [~the Inca], whose 61-year reign from 1599 until 1660 is the longest of any monarch in Cappatian history, is suspected to have been assasinated by Morrack [Morrocan] agents in order to be able to increase the volume and decrease the price of silver exports?

2. For whom were the Sturgovan [Appalachian] Mountains named?

3. With which Mendevan people did the nascent polity of New Provence principally trade during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries?

4. In what year was the Steeplepost Tapestry in the Ambrosian city of Aiga d'Angoixa [~Quebec City] erected, the first device capable of displaying an image communicated via the steeplemesh?

5. What astronomical event inspired the naming of the major Mashick city of Moshtar [~San Francisco] in 1780?

6. What property of matter was discovered by the Cappatian city of Varonøw [~Vitória, ES]'s Nÿstad Atellier in 1902?

7. Which was the first of the staddomains [colonial tradeposts] along the eastern Cappatian coast to be established, with an official chronicle dating to 1561?

8. A predecessor to the Lineball Global Tourney, what was the name of the international lineball competition first held in Awasúconda [~Paraná] in 1909 between twenty teams?

9. Which was the only Novomundine polity to have a delegation present at the signing of the Laic Declarations in Belgrade?

10. What was the name of the first Chinese ship to alight in the Novomund?