113.5: Delicious Etymology

excerpts in translation from the Rotcham Veriloquy, the premier etymological dictionary of Merch. It has been published in several editions since the late nineteenth century via the press of the university of Rotcham [Rochdale].

- mikecorn n. /ˈməik.kɔːn/ [maize] a cereal grass of Lower Mendevan [Central American] origin. 1530 compound of mike alt. mayk, makee and corn < Morrove [Moroccan Arabic] ميك · maik (1502) < a language of the Arcabil, poss. Veonic [Wayuu] maiki "mikecorn".
- shadome n. /ˈʃa.duːm/ [tomato] a plant of the nightshade kind having edible fruits; the fruit of this plant. 1570 < Vascon xadoma (1534) < Morrove شطم · shed'oma (1510) < Normal Nawat [Classical Nahuatl] shitomatl, denoting a kind of fruit used in stews and sauces. This is thought to be a derivative from the verb tomāwi "to swell".
- shockle n. /ˈʃɔ.kəl/ [chocolate] a drink or later a foodstuff prepared from the quattle [cacao] bean. 1623 backwards from shockled adj. /ˈʃɔ.kləd/ "containing shockle" < Vascon xoc(o)lat (1596) < unknown root, poss. Nawat chicol "wooden stick" or Mayattan chocol "hot".
- tartover n. /taːˈtuː.ə/ [potato] a plant of the nightshade kind with starchy underground tubers. 1583 alt. tartove < Vascon tartova (moresca) "(Moorish) truffle" (1555) < Tuscan tartuvo alt. tartuva "truffle" < Latin terrae tūber "truffle, lit. tuber of the earth". See also familiar and hypocoristic forms like tover /tuː.ə/, tattow /təˈtuː/ and tatter /ˈta.tə/.
- tashban n. /ˈtaʃ.ban/ [vanilla] a plant of the orchid kind bearing podlike fruit whose seeds yield a extract used for flavouring and perfuming. 1608 < Vascon taxbàn (1567) or French tacheban < Morrove تشبان tashbān (1518) < poss. Nawat tashpān, or directly < Thebevan [Totonac] tałpán, denoting a specific variety of the tashban orchid.