117.5: Sound Changes from Vulgar Latin to Borlish

The dialects of Borlish are the only surviving descendants of the Insular variety of Vulgar Latin, which comprised Borlish Latin and British Latin. This variety was not overly divergent from the contemporary (ca. 3rd to 5th century) Latin of the continent, with the following exceptions:

    The loss of intervocalic  /w/, as evidenced in inscriptions by e.g. clam "key" (continental clavem) and denio "I reach" (continental devenio).
    The loss of wordfinal  /s/, probably preceded by a period of debuccalisation where final  was pronounced /h/. The dating of this sound change is controversial; cf. fifth-century *a femna* "the women (acc.)" (Classical hās fēminās "these women").

The second of these local changes was grammatically significant, as it weakened the distinctions between forms in noun declensions. Indeed, already by the Old Borlish period all number and case distinctions in nouns have been lost.

    Posttonic vowel loss
    V > ∅ / "VC_CV
    Final syllable simplification
    m > n / _# if stressed
    m s > ∅ / _# otherwise

e.g. amictate /ˌa.mikˈta.te/ "friendship" < amīcitātem

    Palatalisation part 1
    [t k]j [d g]j > tʃ dʒ
    k g > tʃ dʒ / _[i e]
    k > j / _C except [r l w j]
    Fortition
    w > β /#_
    j > dʒ / #_, V_V

e.g. iazo /ˈdʒat.tʃo/ "I lie down" < iaceō

    Consonant lenition part 1
    p t k b d g s > b d g β ð ɣ z / V_[V m l r n j w]
    Palatalisation part 2
    nj lj > ɲ ʎ
    Cj > Cʲ > jC except w or word initially
    Final vowels reduce to schwa (unless stressed)
    V > ə / _# unless stressed

e.g. sabe /ˈsa.bə/ "he knows" < sapit; saibe /ˈsaj.bə/ "I know" < sapiō

    Weak consonants lost
    [β ð ɣ] > ∅ / V_V
    Mid-vowels break in stressed open syllables
    ɛ e ɔ o > je e o ow / stressed open
    ɛ ɔ > e o / elsewhere
    Lenition part 2
    p t k b d g > b d g β ð ɣ / V_V
    C: > C
    Loss of much final schwa
    ə > ∅ / except after consonant clusters

e.g. liei /ljedʒ/ "halt" < Insular laedicum "collision"

    Affricate shift
    tʃ dʒ > ts ʒ
    sk palatalises (fills gap with ʒ), β shift
    sk β > ʃ v
    Vowel u is fronted
    u > y
    Mid-vowel rhotic shift
    e > a / _rC
    e > i / _r#
    Full loss of schwa
    ə > ∅
    Epenthesis before r
    ∅ > d / [n ɲ]_r
    ∅ > b / m_r

e.g. cendre /ˈtsen.dr̩/ "ash" < cinerem; puðir /pyˈðir/ "rot" < pūtēre

    Vowels become lax in closed syllables
    i e o y > ɪ ɛ ɔ ʏ / closed syllables
    Final consonants devoice
    b d g v z ð ʒ > p t k f s θ ʃ / _#
    l-vocalisation and y-diphthong shift
    [l y] > w / _[C #]
    Front vowels merge in weak position
    [ɛ ɪ ʏ ɛj] > ɪ / #_sC
    [ɛ ɪ ʏ] > ɛ / _w[C #]
    Diphthong shift part 1
    ai ɛi ɪi > e i əj
    aw ɛw ɔw > o əw u
    Palatals and ɣ are lost (regenerating some diphthongs)
    ɲ ʎ > n l / #_
    ɲ ʎ ɣ > jn jl j

e.g. aut /ot/ "had" < awt < ayt < ayd < aud < aˈβu.də < aˈbu.tə < aˈbu.to < Vulgar *habūtus;
ismargre /ɪsˈmar.gr̩/ "arise" < ɛjsˈmar.grə < ejsˈmer.grə < ɛksˈmɛr.gre < Vulgar *exmergere

This is the stage, around the turn of the thirteenth century, usually referred to as late Old Borlish:

    …sovravnt il deft nostre saȝntaðesem eð atavalesem n iȝ atrevre golfhavn seȝ hamar dont y verb divin ismetre ac povre paian. peðev soul ez font istovent por vn nov cliȝs d istroienz istablir…
    /soˈvront ɪl dɛwt ˈnostr̩ ˌsajn.taˈðɛsɛm ɛð aˌta.vaˈlɛsɛm nəj aˈtrəwr̩ gɔlfˈhon sej haˈmar dɔnt i vɛrb diˈvɪn ɪsˈme.tr̩ ak ˈpovr̩ paˈʒan ‖ peˈðəw sul ets fɔnt ɪs.toˈvɛnt pɔr yn nu cləjs dɪsˈtrɔjənts is.taˈblɪr/
    …uphold our most sacred and ancient duty to let Gulfhaven be the centre from which we will send the Word of God to pagan lands. We ask only for the necessary funds for a new teachinghouse…

Moving into the Middle Borlish period:

    Rhotacisation of syllabic l
    l > r / C_# except [j w]_#

This gives Borlish its signature pairs like capabr "competent"; capablessem "more competent".

    Aphæresis of initial isC
    ɪ > ∅ / #_sC

Like IRL Italian, this means that many words gain an initial vowel only to lose it a millennium later: Latin stannum "tin" > Old Borlish istan "tin" > Modern Borlish stan "tin". However, this process also deletes initial vowels that were there from the start: Latin historia "story" > Old Borlish istoir "story" > Modern Borlish stoir "story".

    Break-up of sr clusters and hiatus
    ∅ > t / s_r
    ∅ > v / [ɔ o u]_V
    uv > ov

The second of these rules is particularly interesting, since it regenerates some <v> which had been lost in the time of Insular Latin. For example, Latin novellus "new" had Insular form noellus "new" > Old Borlish noel "new" > Modern Borlish novel "new"

    Front rounded vowels are lost
    y ʏ > i ɪ

This provides Borlish with another of its signature features, namely <u> /i ɪ/: tu /ti/ "you (sg)"; prun /prɪn/ "plum". The loss of front rounded vowels led to some homophonous pairs like lun lin /lɪn/ "moon; flax". In many cases this led to one of the pair falling out of use (in this case the latter was replaced with the competing form linsc).

    Voicing of final s
    s > z / _#

The precise timing of this sound change is hard to determine, since it does not interact with any nearby sound changes. Likely this originated as a sandhi effect before a following vowel-initial word, e.g. tu es un /ti ɛ‿zɪn/ "you are a...", before being extended to all contexts.

    Diphthong shift part 2
    aj ej ij > ɛj i aj
    əj əw > aj aw

Borlish's answer to the IRL Great Vowel Shift, these changes are somewhat more modest (and take place a little later, between 1600 and 1800). In combination with the loss of front rounded vowels, however, these changes determine much of Borlish's least intuitive orthographic behaviour. For example, we have muy /maj/ "crumb", where <uy> underwent the changes /yj > ij  > aj/.

The previous shift reflects the outcomes in the Damvath Standard dialect of Borlish; these recent changes differ greatly in applicability across the island. We clos with an 1800s sound shift:

    Late consonant backing
    ʃ r > x ʀ

The latter of these appears to be part of a general areal phenomenon of backing rhotics. A single word reflecting both these changes is scuir /xajʀ/ "boy".