13.5: Roxa Comba Newspaper

cutting in translation from the pages of the 14th October 1950 edition of Roxa Comba, weekly paper from Corunne affiliated loosely (Portingale's peripheral position in the orbit of the Drengot Collusion prevented any more formal ownership) with the Peujon Rous media guild.

…that political theorist and regular contributor to our pages Maya Tavares of the de Sarumptice Diplomatic Edifice will be giving a talk on the lasting impact of the Prodigal Faiths for the centenary celebrations in Belgrade.

Feature: The Numeric Week
- by Victor Fidalgo

1500: The length in leagues of Japetos III, the new Atlantic link laid down between Morrack and Ambrosia which conveyed its first messages this last Wednesday. Originally conceived by the two administrations in concert in 1943, the endeavour was delayed several times due both to budgetary concerns and, of course, the outbreak of war. The cable connects the cities of Gadire on the river Soux [Agadir, Morocca] and Paratzon in eastern Brasil [St John's, Newfoundland].

3: The number of votes by which the Mortar coalition's proposal to fund effectivity research into threshold force mills [nuclear power plants] passed in the Yansieve chamber yesterday, after a surprising volte-face from the Ministry for Farming advisory board. Proponents have (depending on their sympathies or lack thereof regarding the Collusion) pointed variously to the benefits of relying less on Drengot astraphor [electricity] and of elevating Lisbon's Faculty of Alchemy to a hub on the world stage.

82 thousand: The proposed capacity of a new lineball arena in Braga, announced earlier this week by…

---

[1] These cities roughly on the sites of real-life Agadir in Morocco and St John's, Newfoundland.
[2] nuclear energy reactors.