132.5: Dime measures

The dime measures (less commonly known as the 'tithe measures' or 'tenth measures') are a modern system of units based on factors of ten. The name derives from the French dîme "one-tenth", from synonymous decimus in Latin.

The dime measures were codified during the nineteenth century for ease of communication, as theoretical development coalesced into a global endeavour. They have been updated several times since, as it has become feasible to use more convenient yardsticks.

Standard modifiers may be added to each unit to increase or decrease their size by factors of 10. In most common use are:

    great (10⁴)
    tithe (10⁻¹)
    petty (10⁻⁴)
    scant (10⁻⁸)

Length

There are three bases for dime lengths: the inch, the foot (10 inches) and the league (10⁴ feet). At first, the length of the foot was fixed somewhat arbitrarily as the midpoint of the very slightly different Roman foot and the Cathayan "surveyor's span". In 1946, the foot was redefined to make the normal speed [speed of light] (denoted œ) equal to precisely ten great leagues per second.

Several other traditional measures of length were given dime values. For instance, in dime measures the mile is equal to five thousand feet or half a league.
Heft [mass]

There are four bases for dime hefts: the scruple, the ounce (100 scruples), the tabre (100 ounces) and the ton (100 tabres). The third of these units takes its approximate value from the Persian mann and its name from the city of Tabris [Tabriz]. The ounce was originally defined to be the mass of a cube of water of side length one inch; this was later refined to specify that the water be at its triple point of pressure and temperature.
Derived units

Many units are defined in terms of these base units of length and heft, as well as the second. For example, the shove measures the might [force] required to accelerate a heft of one tabre to a speed of one foot per second.