141.5: Provence

collected notes on the polity of Provence.

Provence (Doccian Proença /pʀuˈɛ.sɔ/) is a polity in the south of Gaul [France] on the Middlesea [Mediterranean] coast. It first became independent in 1499, and its capital city is Marsella [Marseille].

Toponymy
The name Provence descends directly from the Latin name Provincia Romana, so called as it was the first Roman province to be established on the Gaulish side of the Alps. The name of the polity's predominant language, Doccian, derives from the division of the French languages into the lengas d'oil (Northern, including Roun [Rouen] and Paris French) and the lengas d'oc (Southern, including Vascon and Doccian) depending on their word for "yes".

History
Medieval Provence was a vassal of various greater powers for almost a millennium. It was incorporated into the expanding Francian Empire in the sixth century and remained part of its western fragment after the empire was divided in two in the ninth. By the early eleventh century it had become mostly autonomous, but it was conquered once more as the last piece of the First Drengot Empire.

After the 1170 Emergency at Dijon, the Kingdom of Burgundy left Drengot control, taking the country of Provence with it. Provence was elevated to a duchy in the thirteenth century under the house of Savoy, and as the direct link between the capital at Geneva and all of Middlesea sea-trade, it became known as the panier de Borgogne (the 'Burgund breadbasket'). Provence was conquered by Vascony during the Vascon Ascendancy of the early fifteenth century, but was returned to Burgundy during the reign of Ambrose III in 1494.

Along with this political turmoil, the late fifteenth century saw extensive piracy in the Middlesea; in Marsella the raiding verged on occupation, and many of the wealthy fled to safer pastures inland. Aid requests presented to Rudolf VIII went largely unanswered, and things came to a head on the 21st of June 1497 when Daniel Menton (Lord Amigòt) led the local aristocracy in declaring independence from Geneva (to this day the 21st of June is a national holiday in Provence). The War of Provincial Independence lasted two years until Burgundy's defeat at the Battle of Margès.

Daniel Menton led the new republic for the next eighteen years, manoeuvring against a hungry Barcelon and their piratical allies who de facto ruled Marsella (it is generally understood that Lord Amigòt established Marsella as the capital of Provence in large part to closely monitor Jondumal's fleets). His successor and cousin, Antoin, ruled for only three years despite the guidance of his mentor and Daniel's friend Guillèn daus Sanz; the coming of the Second Great Dying ravaged the Amigòt dynasty and the Provincial people both.

The following decades saw independent Provence take its place as a preeminent mercantile republic. By the end of the sixteenth century their trade network reached across the Atlantic to port towns in Mendeva [North America] like the newly-established Santrafew. These towns would eventually coalesce into the territory of New Provence.

By the end of the nineteenth century, the power of New Provence had eclipsed that of its Vetomundine progenitor. As the Drengot Collusion formed to the north, Provence became in many respects a European outpost of New Provence, in a reversal of their respective statures centuries earlier. The region stood with Vascony as a bulwark against Drengot hegemony until the Furore of 1961 and the collapse of the Drengot Collusion.

References
The Latin Republics: Jewels under Tyrian Standards by Jacob Trelaune, published by the Yievle Brethin Primers, 1902