144.5: Mashick

Mashick (Borlish Mascic /maˈxɪk/, Nawat Maishī'co /maiˈʃiːʔ.ko/, Mashick Arabic المشيق · al-Mashīq) is a polity in Lower Mendeva and in fact by land area the largest polity in all of Mendeva. At its greatest extent the then-Empire stretched as far northwest as Mivock.

Morrack vessels of the New World Company established trading relations in the late fifteenth century with the relatively-new Mashick Empire, which at that time was much more geographically restricted. The next decades saw many Novomundine crops make their way across the Atlantic from Mashick, including tashban and shockle.

Mashick (and, to the south, Tavancy) served as bases for exploration of Mendevan lands. Fleets charted as far afield as the Ax, and Mashick was used to exercise control over parts of the Arcabil and their growing riches.

Nineteenth-century Mashick was one of the hotbeds of the nascent political philosophy of Ubiquity. It lagged behind British Mendeva in the adoption of the new morals of the Household Renovation, although by the early twentieth century it had caught up (unlike the more regressive New Provence).

The Lovac Wars of the 1920s and 30s saw the first major bombing campaigns on civilian targets, including many cities in Mashick like Moshtar. The unrest and economic downturn following these wars, more than actual military losses, led to Mashick losing significant parts of its northern territory.

In the modern day Mashick is a major food exporter. Droughts in the late 1960s led to reduced amback and mause supplies and sharply rising prices for these fruits in the Vetomund.

People

Mollam Bushta (fl. c19), composer remember for his pieces featuring the torriot and an ally of the early Deviance movement.

Yollamaniza Elcabir (fl. 1943), spy and later author of La te Hozuho Sineton (No Slumber Will Seize Him). The work's depiction of Mashick's Ministry for Knowledge was revealing enough that he was forced to flee the country to avoid arrest.

Tazim Gennun (fl. 1823), author of short story 'The Witch of Tebjacka'.

Sólin Izcoál (fl. c18, Latinised as Solinus Iscovalis and known in Merch as Iscoval), the life scientist who first expounded a scientific account of evolution. He is responsible for the terms 'Iscovalian variation' and 'living web'.

Poshack Nerwaman (fl. 1848), famed lady explorer whose written accounts remained popular works of writing into the twentieth century.