147.5: 13th Lexember - zizania "discord"

zizania /ˌzi.zaˈnja/ [ˌzi.zɐˈnja]
- discord, disharmony, dissonance, cacophony, a harsh combination of sounds;
- discord, tension, strife, dissension, arguing, lack of agreement of harmony between people;
- anguish, distress, angst, inner conflict;
- temptation, spite, vice, sin, feeling drawn to doing wicked things

Etymology: seventeenth-century borrowing from Lombard zizania "ryegrass, weed; discord, vice", which displays a metaphorical extension dating back to its ancestor in Late Latin zizanium "cockle, ryegrass, darnel; vice", a borrowing from Greek. Its modern association with cacophonous noise is probably due to sound symbolism.

Nos oyau zizania dereðr dy mur dy rajognoir.
/nɔz oˈjo ˌzi.zaˈnja deˈrɛðr̩ di mɪr di ˌra.ʒɔiˈnɔir/
[nɔz ʊˈʝo ˌzi.zɐˈnja dɪˈʀɛ.ðɐ di mɪː di ˌʀa.ʝʊiˈnɔ.jɐ]
1p hear-ipf.1p discord behind of-df wall of-df boardroom
We heard arguing through the boardroom's wall.

---

All Change

collected notes on a variety of topics.

Vigo VII (fl. 1121) was king of Greater Devon [Devon, Conrwall, Brittany] in the twelfth century, which was a major vassal of the First Drengot Empire under Emperor Roger II (and later briefly under Roger's son). In 1121 N he invaded the south coast of Wales, attempting a reconquest of the southeastern Welsh principalities, without the support of the Emperor.

Zahid Russian is a Slavone language spoken in Crovatia, Servia and surrounding regions, although having little official recognition anywhere. Despite its current location it is mostly closely related to eastern Slavone languages like Kievan [~Ukrainian]; it descends from communities in the late medieval and early modern period who migrated westward due to the disruption of Islamic conquests from the south. The language is named за́хід • záhid, meaning "west". It is the source of some words in modern Merch (and other Englishes), such as rasgatto "dénouement", which comes via Venisian from Разгадто, a nineteenth-century mystery trevold by Olexi Harchenko.

New Skies, Old Stories (originally published in Provincial French as Novè Cial, Anzan Conte) is a work of popular history detailing the origins of the various threads of parachthon [scifi/fantasy] fiction. It was written by Simon d'Estiala and published by Prindor Marsillès in 1980. Its thesis is that many of the tropes often considered to have been invented by particular parachthon authors are in fact simply examples of existing tropes used in new settings.

Margaret of Iscombe [Exeter] (fl. 1435) was the wife of Mark of Tolose and the mother of King Ambrose III of Vascony. She married at some point shortly before 1435 N. She bore four children who survived infancy, including the future King Ambrose: her first child Alexandra and two younger children Victor (later Duke of Astorga) and Natalia.