15.5: The Second Great Dying

compilation of all the information I have on the Second Great Dying.

The Second Great Dying was a pandemic of bubonic plague occurring across the Vetomund, which arrived in Europe in early 1519 and lasted for between five and seven years.

The first victim in Borland of the Second Great Dying was in Damvath during the so-called 'green snowfall' (a term referring to any snow that falls in spring) of 1519.

Vascony lost over a fifth of its population, and Borland (at the time ruled by Joseph III) lost over four hundred thousand people in the Second Great Dying. 

Individual fatalities attributed to the Second Great Dying include: the wife and brothers of the grandfather of Dane playwright Absolon Mortenszen; the two elder brothers of Adaillé, Duchess d'Avosche.

Coastal areas and polities with closer ties to naval trade were hit harder and more quickly by the plague. Burgundy and Bohemia are notable examples of states which (according to their own records, which cannot entirely be trusted) suffered fewer casualities than most, while Portingale and Provence were ravaged early and mercilessly.

There was (and still is) a common misconception that people blamed cats and dogs for spreading the plague; this idea is only attested in connection with the Second Great Dying several decades after the event. It perhaps originated with stories of the monastery at Bonn, which banished all animals from the grounds in 1512 after several deaths (probably in actuality due to luetic pox).

Population loss due to this plague is sometimes cited as contributing to the collapse of feudalism.