156.5: Through the Ages

collected notes on a variety of background figures in Boralverse history, listed in chronological order.

Franco Cicala was the console of the maritime republic Jeans [Genoa] from 1119 until either 1122 or 1124 (records differ). The console being an elected position voted on by the local nobility, Franco would be followed intermittently by over a dozen consoli from among his descendants.

Andrew II was a martial-minded king of Markland in the early fourteenth century. He succeeded his uncle, who is remembered as being far more diplomatic. Andrew II oversaw the Sack of Rexam in 1301, an act which reignited the on-again off-again conflict between Markland and Wales known as the Mallor Wars. The original medieval building at St Brigid's Abbey was razed during this offensive.

Dewock Barclythe (1452-1539 N) was the Friar of Tremonnow and for several decades the prime Factor of Records at the Brethin House there. Records of his correspondence with clergy and academics across western Europe have survived to the present day. These include some of the earliest attestations of dart [vector] geometry, and thus the beginnings of the unification of geometry and computation.

Lord Simon, the sixth Baron Monçating (b. 1770) was an intellectual, a notorious libertine of the Damvath melee, and an early proponent of Deviance Theology in Borland. He was of Warnine [Guaraní] descent through his mother. His family had been notorious for decades due to a protracted legal battle between his father and second cousin over the Barony of Haubrath. By the age of eighteen Simon could speak Latin, Dutch (and according to his defamers, Warnine), and he could play the clavier and the torriot [a bassoon-like wind instrument].

Marcio Dourao was an author and rabblerouser best remembered for his work Galatheus, or the Knowledge of Good and Evil. This collection of short stories pastiching Greek mythology was written in 1930 during the decade-long Portingale Anarchy. The title references the story of Galatea and Pygmalion. Galatheus was banned in neighbouring Vascony and Morrack for its background politics and, unofficially, for its throughline of gender exploration; neither polity had quite forgotten their roles in the traditionally-minded Modest Arrangement of the previous century.