16.5: Adaillé Nassow & Absolon Mortenszen

compilation of my notes on Adaillé Nassow, Duchess d'Avosche and of playwright Absolon Mortenszen.

Adaillé Nassow (1524–1608) was duchess of Avosche, a duchy in southern Willemy, for much of the sixteenth century and the start of the seventeenth.

Adaillé was born to Roger d'Avosche and his wife Caroline in 1524, the third of eight children. Her two elder brothers died in infancy (at least one in the Second Great Dying), as well as her younger brother Peter, and her youngest sister Anne.

She was raised in early childhood by her nurse Elisa Arnoutszen, cousin (and, later, coauthor) of the renowned physician Laurz Arnoutszen. During this time Adaillé was noted for her inquisitive and intelligent nature.

She was infamous during her later life for her great influence in the court of David of France. Rumours that she was his mother circulated from before his accession until his death.

In 1589 her grandson and heir apparent Déricque caused a scandal by running away from court and very publicly announcing his intentions to flee to New Provence in the Novomund (which he subsequently did).

---

Absolon Mortenszen was a playwright and commentator in the Dane Concert of the sixteenth century. He lived in Alburg, Denmark in the year 1560.

His grandfather is thought to have lost his wife and at least two brothers in the Second Great Dying.

He married a woman named Clara at some point before 1560; they did not have any children.

He had a brother who married a woman named Beatrys.

Shortly before 1560 he wrote a play titled 'High Society', which was received so well that the royal family altered the route of their Grand Tour in order to visit Alburg and see a performance.