163.5: Like Oil and Water

collected notes on two unrelated topics.

Psolic aphlox (Merch /ˈsɔ.lɪk ˈa.flɔks/) [carbon monoxide] is a colourless, odourless and toxic air formed by burning organic material without enough ignifex [oxygen].

Though the noxious effects of breathing the air in closed spaces where a coal fire is burning have been known since antiquity (and likely since prehistory), truly theoretical investigation did not begin until the seventeenth century, and the air was not isolated from the acid oil palacy [oxalic acid] until the Long Peace period at the turn of the nineteenth century. Its modern name, first used in 1854, comprises the adjective psolic [deoxygenated, with a lower oxidation number] from Greek ψόλος • psólos "soot, smoke" and the noun aphlox [carbon dioxide] from Greek ᾰ̓φλόξ  • ăphlóx "without flame".

---

The Graven Sea (Merch /ˈgɾɛː.vən ˈseː/) [Baltic Sea], formerly or poetically also the Eastmere, is an arm of the Atlantic Ocean in northern Europe east of Denmark and enclosed by several polities.

The name derives from Scholastic Latin Gravinia, a term for the region around this sea. This is a backformation from gravinicus, graunicus "from or pertaining to the Graven Sea". In turn, this appears to have been a minim error by a late medieval scribe from former granvicus, a borrowing from Old Norse Gandvik. This placename, identified with the Graven Sea since the fourteenth century, may have originally referred to any of several bodies of water, including the Arctic Ocean.

The archaic synonym Eastmere is a calque from the name in various German languages; for instance, in Frise [Frisian] the sea is called the Astmar "east sea".

The work A Baptism of Fire: Christianity and the Graven was written by Agata Naziunas and published in 1988 by Leidéiai Givatés. This work chronicles the history of the Christianisation of the states and peoples on the Graven Sea's coasts, with a particular focus on Naziunas's homeland of Lithow [Lithuania].