166.5: The North Wind and the Sun

The Borrhatic League is a collection of charitable organisations and political action groups with a focus on laic governance, education and (in recent decades) also pacifism and objection. The League grew from collaboration between working-class groups of minority faiths across Northern Europe in the early nineteenth century; the name derives from the Attic Greek Βορρᾶς • Borrhâs "the North Wind". The League first rose to prominences on the scale of polities during the Second German War of the 1820s and in its aftermath. For instance, Hilgart and Michael Bervisson were influential in Borland's Borrhatic League at this time, especially with regards to calls for religious tolerance.

Although the Borrhatic League and the contemporaneous Deviance movement has (occasionally explosive) disagreements, both are known to have contributed verbiage to the 1850 Laic Declarations in Belgrade. Later in the nineteenth century the Borrhatic League funded orphanages and schools across the region, such as the Borrhatic School of History in the south-eastern Borlish city of Combert, which exists to this day.

I Macchine di Helio (The Machines of Helios) is a marble sculpture created by Lorenzo dell'Acchedia in the 1550s, during the regions Revitalist period. It was carved in Acchedia's workshop in Rome and displayed in that city for the first decades of its existence. The work is a stylised depiction of the Greek god Helios "the Sun" with the six known planets gyring around him. The notion of a Sun-centred cosmos that inspired the work may have been transmitted to Acchedia via his close friend Martèl fi Bacchero, mathematician at the library of Saint Jerome, who is recorded to have debated the issue in public fora as early as 1552.