167.5: Chemical Etymology (cont. 3)

further excerpts from the Veriloquace Glossary of Alchemy, a reference quire compiled by Rotcham University Primers [1].

calamine /ˈka.lɐ.məin/ [calamine] conventionalised name for the chalk [carbonate] of jast [zinc], a mineral known since antiquity, used in the smelting of brass and the treatment of rashes. 1645 < Scholastic Latin calamīna < sporadic alteration of Classical cadmīa "calamine; slag, dross" < Ancient Greek Κᾰ́δμος • Kắdmos "Cadmus, legendary founder of Thebes".

od configure /ˈɔd ˈkɔn.fɪˌgjəuə/ [diastereoisomer] one of two or more configures [stereoisomers] of a substance which cannot be superimposed upon each other or upon each other's mirror images. Contrast with a mirrored pair of even configures [enantiomers]. 1922, compound of od "unpaired, indivisible by two" and configure "shape, arrangement". The first < Early Merch odde < Old Norrish [Norse] oddi "third; odd" < oddr "sharp point; triangle" < Classical German usdas "sharp point; position". The second < Scholastic Latin cōnfigūra "moulding, shape" < Classical cōnfigūrō "I mould" < figūrō "I form, shape" < figūra "shape, form".

palaquate /ˈpa.lɐˌkwɛːt/ [oxalic acid] the simplest twice-acid oil [dicarboxylic acid], containing only two atoms of coke [carbon] and being a colourless and crystalline substance found in plants. 1834 < Scholastic Latin palaquātum < Sanscrit पालक्यावत् • pālaciāvat or its Gurjat [Gujarati] reflex પાલકવાડો • pālacvād̦o "characterised by spinach" < Gurjat પાલક • pālac "spinach" < Sanscrit पालक्या • pālaciā "beet, leafy vegetable". The substance was first extracted from the leaves of spinach during the Long Peace period.

[1] a publishing house based in the city of Rotcham [Rochdale, Greater Manchester] and affiliated with the local university.