17.5: Significant Figures

collected notes on the lives of various important characters that I've mentioned before (in suspiciously alphabetical order).

Princess Alexandra (fl. 1471, known also as Sandra) was the elder sister of King Ambrose III of Vascony. She is principally remembered for being the first Vetomundine royal to set foot in the Novomund.

The chemical sandrine [Vitamin C] is named for her, due to her voyage advancing the understanding of the counter-scurvic effect of sandrine-rich foods like citrus fruits.

Alexandra was married at least twice; her second marriage began (and had issue) during the Wars of Fealty but before her famed voyage.

---

David (fl. 1590) was king of France.

David was dogged by rumours that he was the son of Duchess Adaillé d'Avosche from before his accession to the throne until his death; her influence on his court was noted and derided by contemporary commentators.

Shortly after a scandal involving the Duchess in 1589, David gained more political independence and (inspired by parallel developments across Europe) began to institute centralisation policies in France, increasing his own power at the expense of his ducal and comital vassals.

---

Joseph III (d. 1534) was king of Borland, remembered for ruling the kingdom through the ravages of the Second Great Dying.

Joseph never succeeded in producing a natural-born heir, despite several recognised yet illegitimate children by his various mistresses. Thus, after his death in 1534, he was succeeded to the throne by Brandon II, his nephew.

---

Laurz Arnoutszen (fl. 1540) was a Danish physician whose work in sanitation shaped the course of European medical history, to such an extent that in the context of medicine one can speak of pre-Arnoutszen and post-Arnoutszen Europe (although this periodisation can go too far in neglecting others' advancements and successes prior to his work).

At some point after 1535 he collaborated with his cousin Elisa Arnoutszen. His son was also pivotal in the history of medicine, being partially responsible for the discovery of one-case life [single-celled organisms].

His great treatise on medical handiwork [surgery] and other practice included recommending the employment of distilled lembick [ethanol] as liquid diffruction [disinfectant].