173.5: American Toponymy

    excerpts from the Veriloquace Glossary o'Mendevan Placenames, a reference quire in the Merch language compiled by Rotcham [Rochdale] University Primers.

Ax /aks/ [~SW Alaska] a peninsular polity in northwestern Mendeva [North America], along with the surrounding mainland region and an extended chain of islands leading west into the northern Lovaqua [Pacific]. 1780 < French l'Axe < poss. Vascon or Portingale l'Axa, a Axa < early 18C Arabic الأَقْصَى • al-Aqśá "the Furthest" < folk etymology from Oranger [Aleut] alaxsxaq "mainland", influenced by its northerly location and sheer distance from Mashick [Mexico]. Originally referring specifically to the peninsula, the term was extended to the island chain itself by the Morrack [Moroccan] surveyors who first recorded the term in a Vetmundine [Afroeurasian] language.

Bahassassin /ˌba.hɐˈsa.sɪn/ [Mississippi River] the longest and most voluminous river in Mendeva at over twenty hundred leagues, flowing south into the Gulf of the Arcabil [Gulf of Mexico] through Hasiny. 1704 < Mid 17C Welsh Bahassassin < Carovacian [Caddo] báhassássin "mother of rivers".

Cocain /kʊˈkəin/ [Cuba] the largest of the islands of the Arcabil [Caribbean], or the polity that occupies this region and part of mainland Mendeva. 1530, repurposing of the word's previous meaning of "an imaginary land of folklore with an abundance of food, drink and other pleasures". This dates back to the late 14C < French Cocagne, Lombard Cuccagna, of uncertain further origin. The term has been connected to Willem Dutch cúkye "small cake" < Classical German cōcoō "cake" and to Old Irish cucann "food ration" < Latin coquīna "kitchen", but both have issues of provenance.