176.5: The Light that Casts a Thousand Shadows

The Light that Casts a Thousand Shadows (originally published in Borlish as Un Flam, Mil Ombr "1 Flame, 1000 Shadows") was a 2017 N work of pop history, economics and philosophy written by Ollamec Vamncoury and published by a subsidiary of the Peujon Rous (Red Dove) media guild.

Her book chronicles the duelling ideologies of Ubiquity and Vicinity, whose rivalry defined many of the greatest conflicts of the twentieth century and which together form the basis for most modern schools of political though. In broad strokes, Ubiquity stands for equality, universalism and homogeneity, while Vicinity valourises liberty, localism and diversity.

Despite various administrations' propaganda, neither ideology holds the undisputed moral high ground. Vicinity has been linked to the flourishing of regional languages and to the freedom to pursue nontraditional familial structures; it has also been used to justify the formation of ghettos and even ethnostates. Ubiquity has led to the toppling of truly oppressive hierarchies in the name of egalitarian redistribution of wealth and power; it has also marginalised and attempted to extirpate elements of society that do not fit into one of the many visions for society that leaders have propounded.

However, the point of Ollamec's work is in fact to complicate the idea that these two frameworks are naturally opposed and completely contradictory. She achieves this in part by noting the many times that similar policies have been justified by appeals to both Ubiquity and Vicinity in different times or places. For example, the modern Runeplate Body headquartered in Lengrod [Lviv] determines the global standard for glyphs in almost all known writing systems. This centralisation is undoubtedly Ubiquitous in nature, yet the inclusion of such a diversity of scripts is a far cry from post-Millstone Mashick [Mexico] and their ambitions of "one world language".