178.5: Campottonì and Gorram

some notes on a pair of cities in New Provence, situated across a bay from each other.

Campottonì (Doccian /kãˌpɔ.tuˈni/; Merch /kɐmˈpɔ.tʊ.ni/) is a coastal city on the southern bank of the Guittoc [Delaware] river, in the Nappejoquin[1] region of New Provence. Founded in the late seventeenth century as a Provincial staddomain, it was intended to be a major trading port and to control the flow of goods along the Guittoc.

The second half of the placename reflects the Nappe term [Unami] utaney "city"; the first half is of obscure origin (clearly adapted to Doccian camp "field") but may be related to Nappe necama "first". In this case the toponym likely means "mother-city, home city"; compare the similar formation of μητρόπολῐς "metropolis" in Ancient Greek. 

The settlement languished through the eighteenth century due to unfavourable marshy terrain and the better harbours across the river and further inland. Fortunes changed in the nineteenth with an influx of funds: a major shipping canal across the peninsula (connecting the Guittoc to the wealthy Esquanna [Susquehanna] river system) was dug, and the marshlands surrounding Campottonì were drastically canalised and drained. Further widening of the canal took place into the twentieth century.

Briefly known as the "Venice of Mendeva [North America]", Campottonì gained a fashionable reputation during the Good Game Period [late 19C] and by the modern day had risen to become a cultural and economic powerhouse.

Gorram (Doccian /guˈram/; Merch /ˈgɔ.ɾəm/) is a coastal city on the northern bank of the Guittoc [Delaware] river, in the Nappejoquin region of New Provence. It had extremely humble beginnings as a single Provincial farmhouse or possibly a collection of pastures.

There are Provincial dialect terms gorra "goat" and gorram "herd of goats" cognate with cavra and cavram in standard Doccian—the suffix -am forming collective nouns descends from -(ā)men in Latin—and this is generally agreed to be the origin of the placename; compare the similar formation of Gotham (Merch /ˈgɔ.təm/), a village in Markland.

For a time in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Gorram became by far the most important city on the river, having a better natural harbour. It also participated in the convoy [train, rail] craze of the mid-nineteenth century, being the terminus of an arterial line to the northeast.

Even into the twentieth century Gorram was a major hub of industry on a par with Campottonì. However, by the modern day a lack of infrastructural investment in its own drained land and an inability to deindustrialise gracefully had led the city to become much poorer than its counterpart across the bay.

[1] approximately the watersheds of the Delaware and the lower Hudson.