179.5: Eastern History

excerpt from a 2021 book called Excourse Puzzlers, published by the Royal Tommarth Castinghouse. This was a collection of casual party games using the branding and popularity of a long-running series begun by Merch couple Anna and Ralph Highwater in the 1930s.

History of Eastern Asia I (answers on sheet 144)

1. Which Southern Emperor was it who, upon hearing of the planned circumnavigation of the globe by Morrack [Moroccan] and British [~Welsh] ships, issued the fateful Hangthen Edict in 1520?

2. What modern genre of fiction was, according to some scholars, inspired by the Cathayan tradition of "magpie tales"?

3. In the course of the Democratic Wars, through which of China's protectorates did the empire first launch attacks on the eastern polities of India?

4. Which Cathayan captain christened the Chrysian [Australian] territory of New Leudong [SE coast], named for the peninsula Leudong [Liaodong] in Cathay?

5. While extracting saltpetre from sea wrack, what purplish corporal [element] was discovered in the Contare [Cần Thơ] mills of Zampanagar [~Vietnam]?

6. The late fourteenth century saw the final and permanent sundering of Cathay from China, precipitated by the end of which imperial dynasty?

7. Who was the London ambassador to Nackon Day [~Thailand] who became the subject of a major scandal in 1887 involving the King's eldest son?

8. What was the name of the first Chinese ship to alight in the Novomund?

9. Which modern polity claims descent from the Cammojan Kingdom [~Khmer Empire]?

10. Who wrote The Sea Peoples, a sixteenth-century epic of exploration considered one of the greatest Chinese works ever written?