18.5: Significant Figures, cont.

further notes on two important characters from the annals of history.

Munir al-Hamdawi (b. 1429) was the ruler of Morrack during the latter half of the fifteenth century.

He had a long-standing rivalry with Ambrose III of Vascony, which grew from a childhood enmity to a bitter naval and martial feud.

His reign included the conquest of the southern parts of Portingale in 1457 N, which had previously enjoyed a level of autonomy under Vascon stewardship.

In 1463 Munir established the New World Company (شركة العالم الجديد) as a rival marine enterprise to Ambrose's New Navarre Enterprise; five years later the ship Orion (الجَبَار) of this company circumnavigated Africa.

---

Vigo the Magnificent (d. 761) was king of the Britons in Gaul (and later of Greater Devon) from 720 N until his death.

He ascended to the position upon the death of his mother Queen Maud of Angeus, who as a widow had unified the Kernish kingdoms. This was (in 720) shortly after the Catumagin Accords with the Kingdom of the Franks to the east, which ended hostilities and established an official border between the kingdoms.

King Vigo is remembered primarily for leading the reconquest of Devon, which had been de jure under Wessaxon authority since the final defeat of the West Albic Britons at Gaulford in 656 N (although the more remote parts of the peninsula are thought never to have entirely submitted).

The reconquest of Devon spanned over two decades of intermittent fightning with Wessex and concluded with the victory at Petherton in 749 N. With this victory Vigo was crowned rex Magnæ Dumnoniæ "King of Greater Devon", unifying Devon with Kernow.

He married Guinnumar, daughter to King David I of Wynneth, in ca. 725 N. This marriage is likely what allowed him to secure Welsh assistance with the invasion. With her he had at least three children, including his son Cadern the Doubter (who would become king upon Vigo's death in 761) and his daughter Iseld of Devon, who later became the first patron of the Brethin of Tremonnow.

His prominence in the genesis of the kingdom lead to many of his royal descendants taking his name, including Vigo IV (crowned 940), who conquered east to Angeus, and Vigo VII (fl. 1121).