180.5: 19th Century Novels

summaries of a few works of fiction set in the nineteenth century.

The Red Man (originally in Bulgar as Мaжaт вЧервено "The Man in Red") is a fright tale written by Petcov in 1830s Sreddies [Sofia] and set a decade earlier. This is the aftermath of the Second German War and the concomitant disintegration of the Kingdom of the Danaw [Danube]. The book features newly-independent Boxa [Novi Sad], the recovering shell of Stamboul [Istanbul], and many of the cities of the region which would eventually band together to form the so-called "Riverine Cities". The Red Man has heroes trying to decipher the mysterious figure known as Zechariah, a vampire; this work codified many of the tropes of the vampire, such as fire, blood and butterflies.

Rasgatto (originally in Zahid Russian as Разгадто "Unknotting") is a mystery romance of the 1870s written by Olexi Harchenko in Boxa. The work was sufficiently popular that its title was borrowed into Venise Italian to mean "resolution of a mystery" and later simply "dénouement"; subsequently the term made it into many European languages.

Flaxen Hearts (originally in Mostara as Querdos Llineros "Flaxen Hearts") is a 1919 sensation trevold [novel] in the nascent genre of social comedy popularised by the lovetales of Clarissa Bellamy and the adolescences of Dorotha Quistack, among others. The author Judeta Barracin wrote the work after returning from living for many years in the Arcabil [Caribbean]. It is set in the early nineteenth century and follows the petty dramas of a group of siblings in Cordova [Cordoba].

Earthly Scene (originally in Vascon as Vista Terrena "Landscape") is a trevold first published in 1809 by Antòin Herrel in the Vascon city of Santander. It was almost immediately banned on charges of obscenity, and only survived due to Herrel's flight to Portsmouth, where he published the word in Kentish under his new appellation Tony Smith (presumably aided in the translation by his companion Hal Brennan). The original manuscript was eventually published in 1870, some years after his death.