181.5: Chronicles of Kilshaw

The Kilshaw writers' collective were a group of Merch authors who all lived in or around Kilshaw [Culcheth], a village in the northwestern part of Markland. The group was active through the middle decades of the twentieth century, and is remembered mainly for several long-running series of children's books. These, including the Joke Tawyer adventures, the Emma and Matt mysteries and the Samborn Sisters fancies, helped to redefine the landscape of children's publishing in Markland and beyond. The Kilshaw series have been translated into dozens of languages, and many have been adapted to formats such as sobot [radio] or phasm [television].

A brother and sister pair, Kenna and Holcroft Strong, began collaborating on stories in the early 1930s. They, along with author friends picked up in university and later from literary circles in Safford, would go on to form the Kilshaw collective.

Stories from Kilshaw made an industry of aping, parodying or homaging trends and fads in adult literature, telling tales in genres like masquira, social comedy or voidtale that happen to feature child protagonists. Originally played mostly for comic effect or as entertainment for parents, later works tended to take their premises more seriously and (especially in books aimed at older children) explored more realistic consequences of their events.

Kilshaw is one of the smaller settlements in the intercity borough of Makerfell [Makerfield], west of Safford [Salford]. Its variable pre-reform spellings (including Kilchath and Culshet) point to its etymology in British Celt terms cul "narrow" or cil "corner" and coed "woodland". This makes the placename a likely cognate of other toponyms like Colquiet in Devon and Culgod in Hasiny. The village has become a minor tourist destination for families or for the literary-minded, with a museum and regular fetes themed around Kilshaw characters (costumes, reenactments, etc).