182.5: Writing in the 1880s

notes on several works of writing published during the 1880s.

Pasti Mezziterreni is an 1880 mealbook which compiles recipes from around the Middlesea [Mediterranean]. It was authored by Josforo Sant'Angelo (or at least on his behalf), a traveller from Tuscany who had already garnered significant renown due to his travels, including a near-fatal circumnavigation. The book doubles as an itinerary of a continuous sunward journey along the Middlesea coast from Tarifa in Andalus to X̀r l Joas in Morrack [Ksar es-Seghir, Morocco]. Dozens of translations were published over the subsequent years, including a bilingual Kernish–Wessern [minority Welsh and English languages] version by Iscombe Editors in 1892.

Cludor ncar Vantel "A Postman in Wrexham" is an 1882 trevold parachthon trevold [SFF novel]. It chronicles the misadventures of the titular postman who becomes trapped experiencing the same week over and over. It is notable for being the origin of the Welsh phrase speid dolenu "time loop, lit. coiling timespan", which has been calqued into many other language (compare e.g. liesc bouclant in Borlish).

Dug y Gilfah Dowł "The Duke of Dark Corners" is an 1884 word of historical parachthony by Taguen ah Owain. Set in the twelfth century, she depicts a fictious tetrad of empires controlling Europe and the circum-Middlesea, ruled respectively from Damvath [Borland's capital], Florence, Tanger [Tangier] and Kiew [Kyiv].

L'Aragn "The Spider" is an 1887 play written by Borlish playwright Osctra Jeichey, which has had several touring productions and adaptations to film. The play is about a group of people manipulated by a genius mastermind whose plots eventually collapse in dramatic fashion. A notable version of the play is the 1930 New Provincial version La Rogna, a loose retelling which swapped the sex of many of the characters. The protagonist remained a woman, giving the film tovaric [gay] subtext rather unusual for New Provence at this time.

The first installments of Monstres per Mans "Man-Made Monsters" were published in 1888 by Carmel fi Domenc. This was a serial work of parachthon and fright fiction which would continue until 1903. The episodes appeared in the Santrafew [~Boston] periodical Arcans Exumaz "Revealed Mysteries", which Carmel fi Domenc also co-owned with her brother Jered.

Murro Mendeva "The Making of Mendeva" is a historical textbook which narrativises the early exploration and settlements by Vetomundine [Old World] groups in Mendeva [North America]. Written in 1888 by In mac Harlach, an Irish Welshman, it has been roundly criticised as an inaccurate and blinkered polemic against the concepts of alliance and integration with the original Mendevan peoples and nations. It reveals the influence of a resentful bloc in Britain which saw the rise of Hasiny as a threat.