184.5: A Worldwide Web

various features of the Boralverse beginning with W.

War without Walls is a textbook of military history by Ajamarn [~Rajasthani] scholar Indvar Vijarrania, written in the early twentieth century during his tenure at the University of Udjén [Ujjain]. He chronicles the development of military strategy in the wake of the advent of cannon and other explosives, and in particular how these technologies obsoleted the formerly dominant strategy of defence via walled fortifications.

Wessern (Merch /ˈwɛ.sɐn/, Wessern Wesseron /wəsˈsɛɾən/, Welsh Sasneg /sɐˈznɛg/, Borlish Wessaxon /ˌvɛ.sakˈsɔn/) is the language of the English minority living in Britain [~Wales, etc], primarily in eastern Devon and the downstream Severn. It is the third-most spoken English language on Albion [Great Britain], after Merch and Kentish, although it also has significant populations of speakers abroad in British Mendeva [NA] and elsewhere. Wessern features geminate consonants and the simplification of coda clusters (compare Merch dark /daːk/ to Wessern darick /ˈda.ɾək/ "dark"), as well as fricative voicing between vowels and at the start of words.

Winchester Scholastic Primers are a publishing company which have operated in Kent since the early twentieth century. They have produced works principally of academic or educational interest, with several works used regularly in schools. Books from this publishing house include:
- The Alphabetical Albion (1920), by a consortium including Lucas Osborne
- A Comprehensive Cyclopædia of Pre-Fracture Europe (1937), written by Martin and Elisabeth Forman and illustrated by Goffrey Jordan
- In Sickness and in Health: Medicine in pre-Arnoutszen Europe (2nd ed. 1961), by Andrew Knowles with foreword by Dr Laura Norris

Wolfston the Younger (fl. ca. 930 N) was the last English king of Northumber before the rump state was folded into the Dane territory ruled from Yorwick [York]. Northumber had controlled lands as far south as Yorwick until the ninth century, when that city became the first major settlement in England conquered during the Dane Supremacy. According to the Carlile chronicle, Wolfston's short reign ended ignominiously and without issue at the fortifications in Edinbrough, when those too were captured by Dane forces.