185.5: England

notes on the geographical region of England.

England (Merch /ˈɛn.glənd/, Norman Engleterre /ˈɛ̃ng.tɛʀ/, Welsh Łoegr /ˈɬoː.gə/, Borlish Larry /laˈʀi/) is the name of a loosely demarcated region of Albion [Great Britain]. In the modern day England may be defined politically to be the territory of Northumber, Markland, London and (Albic) Kent; it may also be defined linguistically to be the part of Albion inhabited by communities of speakers of English languages. The latter definition is more expansive, due to the many Wessern speakers in eastern Devon and Merch speakers in eastern Wales.

The majority of languages not listed above refer to this region by some borrowing or adaptation of Medieval Latin Anglōnia "England". This was formed by analogy to e.g. Saxōnia "Saxony" from the root Anglī "Angles", one of the German peoples who populated the region in the sub-Roman and early medieval period. The exceptional Welsh and Borlish toponyms are presumably cognate (see Old Borlish variant form Laȝr "Englishman"), reflecting a hypothesised Classical Kelt word laecor "warriors".

There are (according to mainstream analysis) four English languages spoken on Albion; in order of number of speakers these are Northumber, Wessern, Kentish and Merch. The polity of Northumber extends from the Humber to Edinbrough along the eastern side of Albion, but its local tongue, which has more Norse influence than other Englishes, competes for use there with the more prestigious Merch. Wessern is predominantly spoken in Britain [Wales, Devon, etc], where it enjoys co-official status in some tallaths [~provinces] but a decidedly subordinate role. Wessern features geminate consonants and the simplification of coda clusters (compare Merch dark /daːk/ to Wessern darick /ˈda.ɾək/ "dark"), as well as fricative voicing between vowels and at the start of words.

Kentish is one of the two languages of Kent along with Norman. Kent is a polity divided by the Kentish Channel [English Channel], both geographically and linguistically. Nonetheless, Kentish has had much more French influence over the past millennium than other Englishes, which continues to this day. For example, Kentish is the only English language within the so-called "roral ambit", having a uvular rhotic.

Merch is by some way the most-spoken English language, official both in Markland and London. The London standard of the language, while fully mutually intelligible with the Markland form (to a much greater degree than between different English languages), has several differences, notably in spelling—London did not particpate in the 1870 reforms which somewhat rationalised Merch orthography.