189.5: The Three Rs

notes on three features of this alternate history setting which begin with the letter R.

Radulf "the Kite" (Borlish Radolf y Buttr /raˈdɔlf i ˈbɪt.r̩/, r. 951–) was the last English king of the rump Northumber, ruling from the castle at Edinbrough. He was wed to a woman referred to in the chronicles as one Atre of Cheswic, who may have been a daughter of King Roderick of Dunclothe [Strathclyde, Cumbria]. His reign ended with the expansion of Dane lands up and across from Yorwick [York]; by the turn of the millennium the entirety of the Neck was under Dane authority.

Ricardo Ivarrachezurí (fl. 1824) was a farm theorist from Vascony [SW France, N Spain], who fought as a mozardisto during the Second German War. Ivarrachezurí was the first theorist to record the ability of copper to kill sperm, noting in 1824 that “the seed of the bull, the ram and the stallion alike are made impotent in storing them for some hours in a syringe of copper”. He recognised that this was the same mechanism by which copper prevented infections. Although this sterilising property of copper would later be productively used in contraceptives, Ivarrachezurí treated it as a problem for farmers attempting to artificially breed livestock.

The Runeplate Body (Borlish Corp a Runment /kɔrp a rɪnˈmɛnt/) is a charitable organisation with multinational funding, headquartered in the Kiewan city of Lengrod [Lviv, Ukraine]. Its stated purpose is to compile information on all the writing systems of the world and to recommend standard encodings of glyphs for use on e.g. grimmers [computers]. The organisation, formally established in 1942, grew out of several small groups interested in writing systems, either on an amateurish basis or affiliated with various higher education establishments. The word "runeplate" originally referred to a sheet of metal into which the shapes of writing have been etched.