194.5: False Friends (cont. 3)

some more completely arbitrary dictionary entries from the Concise Onomatory o'Merch (fifth edition), a reference work published in 1961 and compiled by the Utcheter Lexical Association.

coke [/kuːk/ "carbon"] n. the corporal [elements] whose atoms have six mora [protons], found in innumerable substances vital for life, as well as multiple inanimate forms like pencil-coke and diamond; any of several black substances which remain after the burning of wood, principally comprising coke. 17C, singular of cokes, colks < northern dialect term colk "apple core; heartwood; lump of coal". Further origin uncertain. Possibly allied with Frise colk "hole, socket", though the semantic connection is tenuous.

iliad [/ˈəi.ʒad/ "glance"] n. the act of directing the gaze towards someone in an attempt to communicate something without words; such an act intended as a flirtation or amorous advance; any act of non-verbal communication esp. with flirtatious intent. 16C in various forms < Roun French uilliad "ogle" < uil "eye" < Latin oculus "æq."; formerly often eyliad or similar by analogy to ey [eye].

oakcorn [/ˈoːkˌkoːn/ "acorn"] n. the fruit of the oak tree; a suit in the Danaw [Danube] deck of cards; vulgarly, the head of the penis or burris [clitoris]. Folk formation from early Merch akern < Old æcern "oakcorn, tree-mast"; in sexual use from the 15C.

urchin [/ˈoː.tʃɪn/ "hedgehog"] n. a small mammal characterised by its spiny back and habit of rolling up into a ball; in military use, an arrangment of spikes scattered across the ground as an obstacle. Alteration of early Merch irchon [/irˈtʃun/] < Drengot French irechon < Vulgar Latin ērīciō < Classical Latin ērīcius "urchin". Displaced contemporaneous iel < Old English iġil "urchin".