197.5: Landmarks and Legends

notes on various aspects of the Boralverse alternate history setting which begin with the letter L.

Laurent Burnows (Merch /laːn ˈboː.nəz/, fl. 2002–) is an author from Markland. He rose to fame in the first decade of the 21st century with Back to Front, a series of children's books about a partsicular school class going on time-travel adventures with their teachers. His first foray into a more mature style was the 2015 trevold [novel] The First Thing That Went Wrong, debuting the series An Incovenient Armageddon; the series proved a great success with the audience—now teens and adults—who had grown up with his children's stories.

The Library of Sobjan (Majoric [Hungarian] Sobiani Cønvtár) has a claim to the title of Europe's oldest continuously-operating library, having been commissioned by King Jambor of Awry [Hungary] and built during his reign in the twelfth century. The city of Sobjan [Pécs], close to the Crovatian border, was an early Majoric capital and remains to this day a centre for arts and culture. Notably old items found in the Library include a copy of a 1261N liber numerorum (translated to Latin from Arabic works written in the Single Caliphate) incorporating a computed table of arrhumb [cosine] values, as well as a copy of the first folio of the mysterious Mysarnos Codex (whose rediscovery in 1939 proved that the Codex was written in a form of Greek).

Lux Æterna: The First Century of Threshold Force (Willem Dutch Onslackbar Vlay: Drampelstøweth tÿdes har Rést Ew) is a 2002 work of documentary history by Cawen ba Dirxen, a scholar at the Varonøw [~Vitória, ES] Higher Edifice. It chronicles the theoretical developments necessary for threshold force [nuclear power], as well as the technology's political, economic and social effects over time. The book was commissioned to mark the centenary of the discovery of the atomic nux [nucleus] in 1902 at the city's Nÿstad Atellier.