20.5: A University, and Twins

compilation of my notes on the New Vithor University and on the twins Jacomo and Chiarina Bruno.

The New Vithor University (Borlish Nou Universtað a Viðor) is a major academic institution located in the Borlish city of Vithor.

The Vithor New School had been founded by the fifteenth century; by the nineteenth century it was known under the name "New Vithor University". By 1844 N it included the Vithor Historical Institute (l'Edifiç Historic); said institute was eventually divided into the Faculty of Concurrence History and the Faculty of Domain History.

At some point the New Vithor Primers (Nou Premour a Viðor), producer of academical publications based in the school, was established; in 2007 it was producing the textbooks for the school's courses.

Alumni
- Lambort Darrian (fl. c17), philosopher of altruism and charity
- Michael Bervisson (17th June 1799–12th January 1849), political historian
- Darren Brodus (fl. 1828), mathematician and pioneer in sam theory
- Sconet Ydreç (fl. 2008), author and medievalist

Offered courses
- Chocolate and Rubber: Cappatia during the Twining Century (Scoclat e Coscou : Cappatia par y Kintanç Mondial); 1986
- Concurrence History of the 18th Century: Gold, Science, and Waging War (Histoir Concorrent, s18 : Aur, Theory, e l'Art de Var); 2007
- Concurrence History of the 16th Century: Death, Ships and the Movement of the Heavens (Histoir Concorrent, s16 : Mort, Vascel eð y Motion Celest); 2008
__

Jacomo Bruno (fl. 1821) was a minor landowner in Furlaine in the early nineteenth century. He was the twin brother of composer Chiarina Bruno, who is better-remembered.

Jacomo fought in the Second German War, and participated alongside Borlish troops in the shambolic 1821 Battle of Hulm. During this service he met future mathematician Darren Brodus, with whom he would strike a life-long epistolary friendship.
__

Chiarina Bruno (fl. 1824) was a librettist and composer active in the early nineteenth century, primarily in the aftermath of the Second German War. Her most enduring work is the opera Ale in Fiamme (Wings Afire), an adaptation of the story of Icarus.

Born at her father's estate in western Furlaine, she lived in Verona for most of her adult life. She had a twin brother Jacomo; they were noted for their remarkably similar appearance, even for twins.