203.5: Through the Ages 2

more collected notes on a variety of background figures in Boralverse history, listed in chronological order.

Nadàlla fi Carol was an influential figure in the early years of the city of Santrafew [~Boston, MA], one of the first trading posts in Mendeva [NA] established by Provence. She was raised as the eldest daughter of town reverend Carol Zancoud, and as an adult she helped to author the 1621 Becouin Treaty which defined the amicable relationship of the traders with the local Mastòiset [Massachusett] people for several decades. She is rumoured to have carried on an affair with the runaway heir to the Avosche duchy in her youth, although she makes no mention of such a relationship in her surviving diaries.

Dorothe Shock was the original proprietress of the De Marnoshring emporium in the early nineteenth century, which over the following two hundred years would become a quasipolitic guild [multinational corporation] controlling much of the market for children's toys and various material hobbies. She ran a store in the Saxon city of Miszen [Meissen], originally alone but from 1813 alongside her younger brother.

Agathe Bisset (d. 2025) was a French politician and author. Born in Blois during the latter years of the Drengot Collusion, she held various background positions in parliaments of France in the decades following its dissolution, only attaining wider recognition via her works of popular fiction from the 1990s onward. Her most successful work, 2003's Hommes en Noir (Men in Black), chronicles stories of spycraft and espionage from ancient times to the modern day; her mother's alleged position as a mid-century spy at the Ministry for Information may have been the source for some of Bisset's more recent accounts.