21.5: Kent

collected notes on the polity of Kent.

Kent (formally the Bond of Kent and Normandy; in Rone French The Bond de Caint od Normandy) was a state in southern Albion and northern Gaul.

Pre-Conjuring Kent
In the first millennium, Kent was first an independent English kingdom and then a vassal of Wessex through its ascension and decline, gaining power and some autonomy as Wessern might diminished. Similarly-positioned Essex had a long enmity with Kent, with King Athelwolf of Essex mounting the most successful attempted conquest in the tenth century.

In the tenth century, King Jothey of Borland arrived in Kent with his queen and children, twice-exiled from Borland and Sothbar following the Dane invasions of the island.

Pre-Conjuring Normandy
Normandy was formed from Dane settlements in the north of Gaul in the ninth and tenth centuries. By the eleventh it had been established as a vassal of the Kingdom of the Franks as the Duchy of Normandy, ruled by the Drengot family. It stretched from the Vire river in the west to Flanders in the east, and Norman in-migration southward to found towns such as Thelmass continued for some centuries.

As the Dane Supremacy in the north waned in the tenth century, many left Sodrick and other Danish lands to the relative prosperity of Normandy. Moreover, Norman ships participated in raids along the coasts of Europe through this period, as far afield as Marsella in 946 N.

The Kernovan Conjuring and Afterwards
The political union of English Kent with Normandy began in 1029 N with the Norman-led subjugation of the Petty Kingdom of Kent as the first step in the creation of the First Drengotian Empire (also called the Constant Empire). This invasion was triggered by the death of the elderly patriarch Rodulf of Kent, who had ruled since childhood for nearly eight decades.

During the Wars of Fealty in the late fifteenth century, Kent was ruled by the Two Henries, the twin first-born sons of Vincent II. Kent came to a rapprochement with France to its south in the 1590s, just as the wars were becoming increasingly tangled and expensive.

Alongside the cities of London and Paris, Kent was the political centre of the Drengot Collusion of the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, with many governmental buildings located in Rone. Among these was the Red House, the popular name for the Kentish Ministry for Information. The activities of the Red House precipitated the Furore of 1961, which in turn led to the collapse of leader Darchild's tinplate administration (via the Darchild memorandum) and with it the entire Drengot Collusion. The dissolution of the Collusion inspired the Kentish ostracon reforms, which were subsequently used as a model in several polities around the globe.

The state's professional lineball team won the global tournament only once, in 1965.

Notable Kentish people
- Jan Tacqueray, historian and linguist
- Jockin Abiscander, deixist historian and author
- Mark Deuthex, author and intelligence agent
- Vincent Margouille, author and professional lineball player
- Vréqueu Margouille, professional lineball player