25.5: Borlish borrowings into English

excerpt from Daughters of the Sea: The Northwestern Isles, a historical account of Ireland, Albion and Borland and the bonds of migration, technological transmission and shared cultural heritage over time. The book was written in 1956 by Merch author Challow Huddresfell during his time at the University of Safford's Faculty of Trade.

…a lodrigneth indreck hosting a stethley in the keething-ground davarn.

Our neighbours to the east have never matched the globe-spanning workshop and household vanguard of the British. Nonetheless, if only by virtue of proximity, the English languages have been adapted Borlish terms even from the medieval period. For example, while we associate the early centuries of the post-Roman Isles with migration from Albion into Borland (in particular, after the Merch subjugation of East Anglia in the late eighth century), words like danny "a nuisance, an irritating person", bather "stringed musical intrument" and parren "traveller, newcomer, novice" enter Old English from Old Borlish in the tenth century alone (according to their first attestations in monastic chronicles).

Later, in the post-Tetrarchic fractured landscape of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, Borland's advantageous position in the European trade mesh gave it the opportunity to introduce words for several goods into the English languages. In addition to the obvious examples of nargel and mauser fruit [coconuts and bananas], this period also gives us jackdaw glass and zackit masonry.

We also owe the word kevler, that staple genre of every top-line performer's more obscure contributions to film, to Borlish. Kevler romance arose in the Good Game period in the late nineteenth century as a subgenre of masquira tales (Carvallo's books themselves feature many elaborate robberies of diamonds and other traditional kevler prizes). Works in the genre have focused since its inception on thieving heroes entering high society as outsiders in connit [disguise] to make away with the hoarded treasures of the intolerably wealthy. It would perhaps be overeager to attribute romanç kevlar's many sensation works in contemporary Borland to a generalised class-levelling instinct (despite the scandals dogging the royal…