28.5: Saxony and Libya

Saxony is a polity in Europe bordering places such as Poland, Willemy and Bohemia.
History

During the Second Tetrarchy, the Kingdom of Saxony was a major vassal state of the German Empire administered from Bardwick, and many of their Hohenbrocken dynasty ruled the empire outright. The region in the twelfth century is characterised by tensions between Saxony and Bavarn, the other major vassal kingdom of the empire.

The Kingdom of Saxony was affected by the collapse of the Second Tetrarchy in the thirteenth century; the nascent Stadbund of mercantile cities in the north seceding and reducing Saxony to its lands upstream in Maidburg and Lepzi.

Saxony is considered to have profited most from the First German War; in its aftermath the polity controlled more territory than it had at any point in its history.

In the nineteenth century, the Blue Marian Society (which was founded in Lepzi) spearheaded movements for reform to inheritance and suffrage laws.
People

Monarchs and rulers

    Brunow III (fl. 1120), who ruled the German Empire jointly with King Conrad II of Bavarn
    Ruprecht II (fl. 1200), under whose rule Bardwick removed many tariffs on imported goods
    Baldur (b. 1295), who was deposed as king and reduced to Margrave of Maidburg at the age of four

Theorists and scholars

    Johans Dümmeyer (fl. 1827), mathematician whose work 'Sets and Functions' attempted to resolved ongoing definitional debates in the community

Writers

    Witkind Defenter (fl. 1902), who wrote 'Cities of the Corvine Concert before the Landfall' on behalf of the Bardick Library of Trade
    Elke Hannawald (fl. 1946), writer during the Spring Tide of masquira works known for her trevold 'Outrun the Dawn'
    Elsebeth Sneider (m. 1772, d. c1830), pioneer of the genre of parachthon romance with her work Through a Black Mirror

---

Libya is a Middlesea polity on the north coast of Africa, located between Morrack to the west and Egypt to the east.
History

During the Second Tetrarchy of the early second millennium, Libya (under the name Ifricia) was an important admiralty of the Single Caliphate, ruled from Tunis. As imperial hegemony in Europe and northern Africa began to fall apart, so did the Single Caliphate; an independent admiralty in Libya was declared in 1237 (at the same time as the Maghrebi admiralty to the west).

Although Libya's navy was not yet trading directly with the Novomund in the sixteenth century, seamen from the region were commonly employed in the merchant fleets of Morrack and (especially) of Provence.

In the early seventeenth century, the banner of Libya comprised two black fields, one white and one orange. At this time, the polity warred intermittently with Morrack over control of trade into the eastern Middlesea.

In the modern day, Libya is a significant refiner and exporter of cuproses.
People

Monarchs

    Hisham Ar-Rashid (r. 1601–10), whose reign is notable for inspiring the terms political terms 'copperplate' and 'tinplate'