36.5: Wars and Rumours of Wars

a compilation of my notes on several major events in the history of the world around Borland.

The First German War (–1770) was a conflict in eighteenth-century Europe which cannot neatly be lumped in with the somewhat-earlier Democratic Wars. Its conclusion is usually taken as the start of the Long Peace.

Saxony was ascendant immediately following the First German War, controlling more territory than it had in any point in its history. This stood in in good stead for early industrialisation, especially in the capital of Lepzi.

-----

The Democratic Wars were a collection of international and civil wars which took place in the mid-eighteenth century.

The earliest incarnations of steeplepost technology are seen during the Democratic Wars; usually these consisted of lines of temporary signal towers which could only send simple coded messages, such as an hour to launch an assault. One more advanced and permanent system was used to connect Cordova to Malaga in Andalus during their particular conflict with Morrack.

Albion saw many changes in the aftermath of the Democratic Wars. Long contested between Markland and Kent, the city of London found itself newly independent for one final, lasting time.

The end of the Democratic Wars and the concomitant massive migrations of people is suspected to have contributed to the global spread of pennackit dystentery, which begins in earnest in 1753.a compilation of my notes on several major events in the history of the world around Borland.

The First German War (–1770) was a conflict in eighteenth-century Europe which cannot neatly be lumped in with the somewhat-earlier Democratic Wars. Its conclusion is usually taken as the start of the Long Peace.

Saxony was ascendant immediately following the First German War, controlling more territory than it had in any point in its history. This stood in in good stead for early industrialisation, especially in the capital of Lepzi.