38.5: Steeplepost

Steeplepost refers to any of a group of similar technologies (flag-lamp, barrick, longform, gyre, etc.) used for transmitting messages over long distances.

Development
The very earliest incarnations of the steeplemesh arose during the Democratic Wars of the mid-eighteenth century, but these tended to be single lines of temporary signal towers set up to span terrain that made it too costly to simply send a rider with a message. Moreover, these were set up only to transmit simple messages; for example, an hour to launch an attack.

These early wartime towers usually relied on lampfire and thus were reliable only at night, or else a collection of patterned flags, which were usable at day but required a shorter distance between watchtowers. The two-arm system, allowing up to nine separate states to be transmitted, was first tested in Thynen (a town in Willemy), where the church's weathervane was reportedly commandeered to send the first lines of the Pater Noster to the neighbouring town Bost. (Hence, probably, the name “steeplepost”.)

By 1820 Ambrosia had unveiled its Steeplepost Tapestry in Aiga d'Angoixa, which promised to allow the (very slow) transmission of images along the lines by communicating the brightness of each pip in an enormous grid, in the manner of a cross-stitch. It was on the Tapestry that the infamous Lies of 1824 were first displayed.

The very first cross-sea steeplepost lines were established around the same time, with air-steeples in the Rustigh Strait connecting Borland to Willemy during the 1830s. This link would last only until 1854, however, when it was replaced with a barrick line.

The middle of the nineteenth century saw the flag-lamp system gradually superseded by barrick lines generally. Uptake was uneven owing to the twin constraints of geography and vested interests; for example, Mendevan powers tended to embrace the new technology more enthusiastically than their similarly-situated Vetomundine counterparts.

The new lines made partially-automated transmission much easier to develop. A prototype wired tachygraph, the Vilmanas Teleclavia, first succesfully sent a message via the steeplemesh in 1859.

Encoding
Steeplescripts, or methods by which a message is translated into a transmissible form, have many forerunners in secret codes used for spycraft and warfare. For example, Markland under King Andrew III during the Wars of Fealty employed "Thieves' Script" to send secret messages, converting each letter or common word into a series of three symbols.

One early line in Andalus (from Cordova to Málaga, usually given as the first line connecting two major cities, and essentially just formalising the signal system that had existed for the duration of their conflict with Morrack) used a variant of the ancient Polybius square adapted for Arabic script.

The first modern steeplescript was developed in Cracow by engineer Sigmund Adamich and his son Andrei as part of the royal initiative to connect Cracow to Bitom, using a set of four symbols, traditionally referred to as "dot, dash, bar and hook".

Cultural Detaxion
The spread of the steeplemesh reduced overland communication times extremely rapidly (by the end of the nineteenth century some places boasted thrice-daily post delivery, not to mentioned the nascent wired tachygraphs), and undersea barrick links would further connect the world.

Steeplemesh may have contributed to the decline of the voidtale fashion, demystifying formerly-unknowable distant lands and weakening the cultural narrative of the pioneering documentarian explorer.