40.5: Albion

Albion is the largest of the Northwestern Isles, situated directly north of Gaul. To its west and east lie Ireland and Borland, respectively.

History
Germanic migration from the continent into Albion took place through the fifth and sixth centuries, leading to the establishment of Markland, Kent, Wessex, Anglia, Northumber and several smaller and short-lasting kingdoms.

The westward encroachment of Saxons drove a emigration of Kelts from (what would become) Devon to Kernow, and for the period between the Battle of Gaulford (656) and Vigo the Magnificent's reconquest the entire peninsula was under the sole authority of Wessex.

The original calling of the Brethin religious order, founded in the eighth century, was to chronicle the Christianisation of Albion and Ireland.

Vikings raids began in Albion with the destruction of Halgrive in 824, although news of Dane incursions would have travelled west from Borland for some years by that point. While Northumber would fall completely to Dane rule, neighbouring Markland withstood (due perhaps to a fortunate lull in its perennial conflict with the Welsh kingdoms) even as much of its eastern territory was settled by the Danes.

The Guithle kingdom of Scotland was established in the ninth century with the help of Harald the Blue of Sodrick, displacing or merging with the existing Pict culture and language.

Sodrick lost much of its territory to the kingdom of Dunclothe in the tenth century, as it had been weakened by extended vikings to the east and the short-term decline in the Dane Supremacy.

By the turn of the second millennium, the south of the island is dominated by an expanded Kent (having recently subdued the remains of Wessex) below Markland and a now-unified Kingdom of Wales. To the north lie the confederate kingdoms of the Danes and then a Scotland even now influenced by Norse and English peoples.

Much of southern Albion was conquered in the eleventh century by Normandy (with the aid of Devon in the form of the Kernovan Conjuring), consolidating the island bar Wales as far north as Edinbrough into what would become the First Drengot Empire.

The kingdom of Wales began to expand in the thirteenth century, conquering Devon after a long campaign. Tensions with Markland remained high (as they had done for almost a millennium), with the reignition of the Mallor Wars and the sack of Car Vantel/Rexam in 1301.

The late fifteenth century saw much of Albion (and some of its neighbours) embroiled in the Wars of Fealty, which lasted for forty-six years. While other polities in Europe sought to expand their trade meshes (either westward following the Novomundine Landfall or exploiting new routes to Asia), the majority of the wealth and armies of Albion was dedicated to war.

The polities of Albion were still recoving from the Wars of Fealty in 1519 and thus were extremely vulnerable to the Second Great Dying.

Albion saw many changes in the aftermath of the Democratic Wars of the eighteenth century. Long contested between Markland and Kent, the city of London found itself newly independent for one final, lasting time.

The Long Peace around the turn of the nineteenth century saw the Deviance movement take root across Albion, initially via the mesh of Promethean clubs that had arisen over the preceding decades. The movement flourished perhaps due to Albion's many religious minorities and the strong association of the Church with local authority.

Polities
Britain
Drengot Collusion
Dunclothe
Kingdom of Greater Devon
Kent
Markland
Northumber
Scotland
Sodrick
Wales
Wessex

References
An Abridged History of Northern Albion by Aidan Donblane, published by Cloddale Primers, 1940 (with commentary by his daughter Anhart, 1980)
Daughters of the Sea: The Northwestern Isles by Challow Huddresfell, published by Safford University Primers
The Alphabetical Albion by Lucas Osborne et al., published by Winchester Scholastic Primers, 1920
Post-Drengotian Albion: the Long Thirteenth Century by Professor Nuraddin Venzer, published by the New Lincoln School, 1973
Albic Medicine in the Workshop Decades by Dr Harold Westcamp, published by the Conster Health Edifice, 1992