43.5: Barcelon

Barcelon is a Middlesea polity in the east of the Spanish peninsula.

History
In its early existence from the ninth to the thirteenth century, the county of Barcelon (soon to be the duchy and indeed from 1067 the kingdom) was ruled by the House of Barcelon. It had perennial skirmishes with Tolose to the north, so that even when Tolose became a vassal state to the First Drengot Empire in the eleventh century, it maintained a standing army for protection against Barcelon.

By the late twelfth century, the Kingdom of Barcelon controlled significantly more territory at the expense of Andalus, including the population centres of Saragossa, Valencia and (briefly) Toledo.

Barcelon conquered the region of Tolose from Ascendant Vascony in the first decade of the sixteenth century, thereby (along with territorial gains by Burgundy) depriving it entirely of its Middlesea coastline. In the same period, the War for the Barcelon Succession took place, although notably it only lasted for four days.

The early sixteenth century also saw Barcelon rattle sabres with the newly independent Provence, involving piratical raids on Provincial cities (and especially Marsella) supported financially by Barcelon. Part of the resolution involved the region of Narbona having double obligations to King James III of Barcelon and to Lord Amigòt in Provence.

The longest-reigning monarch of the Kingdom of Barcelon is James VI (Jaume VI), who ruled into the eighteenth century for 58 years and after whom is named the famous jaumetia, a whitefish stew.

People
Monarchs
Martha II (Marta II, crowned 1186)
James III (Jaume III, fl. 1517)
James V (Jaume V, fl. 1670), who spent much of his childhood in a Cordin wardship in Borland
James VI (Jaume VI, reigned 1691–1749), longest-reigning monarch in the history of the Kingdom of Barcelon
Other
Raymond al Mustafa (fl. 1750), mathematician who worked with Rachel Desslut on the nascent field of methodics while he was under the patronage of the Duke of Aragon