46.5: Channels

The Rustigh Strait (Borlish: Naur Rustig /nor rɪˈstaj/, Frisian Nao Rustig /nɑw ˈrʏ.stɪg/, literally "calm strait") is the channel of water separating the southern coast of Borland from the northern coasts of Flanders and Willemy.

The strait's position often gave it great strategic importance, in terms of both military and trade. For example, coastal cities on the strait like Axbane and Amstel [Amsterdam] were natural stopping points for ships trading between Dane lands to the east and the Welsh and Vascon trade meshes to the west.

During and following the Albic Wars of Fealty, British communities of immigrants spread along the cities on both sides of the Rustig, such as Pentrose.

An air-steeple connection was set up in the 1830s across the Rustig from Nausçod on Borland to Laicouche in French Guillenne (now Lagcóch), where the strait was less than seven leagues across. In 1854 this was superseded by the creation of an undersea barrick cable.

--

Methodics is the field of study pertaining to the discovery, development and improvement of methods. In this scholastic context a method is any series of instructions that may be unambiguously and repeatably followed to produce some result.

History
For millennia methods were developed sporadically without much awareness of general methodical principles. For example, an early method in the historical record is Euclid's procedure for finding the coarsest scale common to two whole numbers. Later we find methods involving tables of pre-computed values, such as Nadim's Method for multiplication by means of the Trapolitan identity for arrhumb [cosine].

Methods with more immediate practical use were continually developed; by the sixteenth century the threepoint method [triangulation] for calculating distances was vital in creating accurate maps for the explorations of the Intertwining Century.

One the first major results in abstract methodics came from the study of life, with Rachel Desselut's 1743 work Parable of the Mute Bookbinder, which argued that in order for living matter to duplicate, it must contain within itself an explicit method describing its construction. Although heredian acid [DNA] would not be discovered for another century, her work accurately predicted the necessary separation of Form and Method that would become the bedrock of the study of heredity.

An incresingly-important category of method from the eighteenth-century onward has been procedures for encrypting text, either to conceal it or else simply to convert it into a suitable form for a given steeplepost.

References
Drawing in the Sand: the History of Calculation, a collaborative reference book originally published 1954 in Napolitan as Scheme ne Rene: a Storia d'Amiradanza by the Agenza Scholaria Fodgesa