49.5: 9th Lexember

epu "express"

epu /eˈpi/ [ɪˈpi]
- (of a shop or similar) express, mini, providing a more limited but more focused service than usual;
- cheap, good value, having a gratifyingly low price for the level of quality offered;
- bitesize, mini, having been stripped down in complexity and/or size for easier immediate consumption;

Etymology: modern borrowing from French épu "express, direct, unhindered, available, at hand", first seen in Boral in the names of imported shopfronts such as Panier, whose Panier Épu establishments were much smaller but offered better deals than the main line.

Cognate with Boral speut "free, unfettered, clear", the word épu reflects Old French espeü, past participle of moribund verb espeïr "to free, untangle, prepare". from Latin expediō "I remove the shackles of, I carry out, I am profitable".

Jo n'ay scið l'eç scoclet epu plu pascr.
/ʒo ne xɪθ lɛts xoˈklɛt eˈpi pli ˈpa.xr̩/
[ʝo ne ˈçɪh lɛs xʊˈklɛt ɪˈpi pli ˈpa.xɐ]
1s neg-have.1s can.p.pst def-p.px chocolate mini no.more eat-inf
I can't stop eating these mini chocolates.

---

    excerpted in translation from the scitation questions given in the Hulm Siebenhaus's winter 2021 N season and specifically from those for the avenue "Zwanzistewes Entwicklungen" (Advancements of the 20th Century), which tests the taker's understanding of major technological and societal developments during this period.

…causes of the 1937 Veldsvindung and pursuant general poverty.
Question 5 (20 minutes)

Answer the following ten questions in brief.

(i) Which of the alchemic corporals [chemical elements] which are tesqual—having a count of at most 94—was discovered most recently? Who first documented its material properties, and in what year?

(ii) The first then-called "house of odyssey" [cinema] to sell tickets to the public on a regular basis was established in which Riverine city [1] in 1912? Which kerther band [orchestra] was first to have a concert shown in odyssey here?

(iii) Which methodist at the Nadacow [2] Higher School successfully predicted the structure of heredian acid [DNA] in their 1929 paper, a full two decades before their prediction would be verified experimentally?

(iv) The 1968 parachthon tale Starsail, written by Roun [Rouen]-based author Ashford Pasquier, is responsible for coining the jargon term for which modern technology?

(v) Which brother-sister pair founded the Pannier market guild in 1903, which would go on to have a presence in 69 political regions by the year 2000? In which then-Drengot city did they do so?

(vi) In which year was the Lineball Global Tourney first held in Mendeva, and who…

---

[1] Any of the band of city-states along the Danaw [Danube] which formed an alliance-federacy in the nineteenth century following the collapse of the Kingdom of Danaw.

[2] Capital city of Hasiny, a Mendevan [North American] polity on the Gulf Coast.