5.5: The Mysarnos Codex

taken from popular narrative history book The Mysarnos Problem: the Enigma of an Inconvenient Codex, by classical historian Theodora Riphæna, a vocative writer who studied at the Autonome University of Thessalonica. Known for compiling centuries-spanning epics about the journey of a single idea, technology or artefact, this book on the Mysarnos Codex was published in 1943 through her alma mater's printers.

…pages rediscovered in the Library of Sobjan [Pécs, Hungary] including the vital clue: the same text—a fictionalised biography of the author—written both in Greek and in the code (as then it was still thought to be) of the manuscript.

But lest we get ahead of ourselves, let us return to the city where our saga begins. The city of Mysarnos is the former capital of the Principality of Mystra [the Peloponnese], a Roman mordether [1] vassal state from the eleventh century until its dissolution as a result of the Romantic Wars in the seventeenth. The name has retrospectively also been applied to the nearby preexisting Greek town (which was later officially incorporated as a municipality of Mysarnos) known in antiquity as Pylos.

At its height in the sixteenth century Mysarnos was a hub for the Revitalist movement, with a population of nearly thirty thousand. Located at the western end of the Athenian Way, the city recieved the majority of all trade imports in Greece. The recent completion of an extended church complex north of the city furthermore led to…

---

[1] A term (from Middle Welsh morteth "sea voyage") denoting various kingdoms and similar states on the Mediterranean founded by sojourners from northern Europe, but usually excluding those established in the Holy Land as integral parts of the contemporaneous crusades.