52.5: 30th Lexember

çarvinot "raspberry"

çarvinot /ˌtsar.viˈnɔt/ [ˌtsɑː.viˈnɔt]
- raspberry, the plant Rubus idaeus or the red fruit thereof;
- purple-red, the colour of the ripe fruit

Etymology; further diminutive of obsolete çarvin, cervin, itself abbreviated from Old Boral baȝ cervin "raspberry, lit. fawn berry". The Old Boral cervin "fawn, young deer" is a derivative of çarf "deer", from synonymous cervus in Latin.

Mell'acquetta er çarvinot ramenant starc.
/mɛˌla.kwɛˈta ɛr ˌtsar.viˈnɔt ˌra.meˈnant stark/
[mɪˌla.kwɪˈta ɛː ˌtsɑː.vɪˈnɔt ˌʀa.mɪˈnan stɑːk]
1s.gen-liqueur cop.pst raspberry evoke-p.pst strong
My liqueur tasted strongly of raspberries.

---

excerpt from Lux Æterna: The First Century of Threshold Force, written in 2002 (at the time in Dutch with the title Onslackbar Vláy: Drampelstøweth tÿdes har Rést Éw "Unquenchable Fire: Threshold Force in its First Century") by Cawen ba Dirxen at the Varonøw Higher Edifice. This documentarian book was commissioned to commemorate the centenary of the discovery of the atomic nux [nucleus] in the city's Nÿstad Atellier (then privately owned and run by substantial theorist Lohic Courvoisier de Nÿstad).

…has since 1996 produced more killdark [uranium]—predominantly processed immediately into tarmarette [yellowcake] form—than the combined output of all Chrysia [Australia].

Hints at the discrete nature of the composition of atoms (a phrase which itself would not have sat well with either side of the Atomicity Rift; atomicists were yet wedded to the intrinsic Leucippic model, while their opposition regarded the entire scheme as a merely useful fiction) had been encroaching into the understanding of matter for decades. Since the first corporal enumerations [periodic tables] in the 1840s it had been realised that naïvely ordering corporals by weight led to inelegant groupings when alchemical properties were taken into account (most notably the strong motivation to place janthine [iodine] among its detaxional brethren like muria [chlorine]), and no theoretical basis for these transpositions would be proposed for decades.

At the same time, the apparently-unrelated phenomenon where the lightest corporals had all been measured to have weights almost exact multiples of that of aquifex [hydrogen], while this was not true at all of heavier ones (even such prosaic substances as copper!), demanded explanation. In 1881—a dozen years before the invention of a device that could even test her theory—Kievan theorist Nike Sarantylack proposed to resolve both questions at once. Her "mulberry" model (so-called by her detractors) supposed each atom to comprise a number of each of two different…