63.5: Devon

Devon (Welsh Devneint, locally Dewna; Borlish Dorogn) refers geographically to the southwestern peninsula of the land of Albion, and politically to one of the most longstanding tallaths of Britain.

History

Devon is named for the Dumnōniī (the Latin name reflecting Classical Kelt Dubnonī or Dubnantī, meaning "(people) of the deep valley"), a Kelt people who inhabited the region in Roman times.

Devon was conquered piecemeal by the Saxons, with the defeat at the |Battle of Gaulford in 656 putting the area under the sole authority of the Kingdom of Wessex (although the westernmost region is thought never to have fully submitted to its rule).

In the eighth century, King Vigo the Magnificent of the Britons spearheaded a reconquest of the peninsula with the support of David I of Wynneth, obtained via his marriage to King David's daughter Guinnumar. Over two decades of intermittent warfare were ended with the victory at Petherton, and Vigo was crowned the first king of Greater Devon (rex Magnæ Dumnoniæ), uniting Devon with the region later known as Kernow in Gaul.

The Brethin religious order was founded in eighth-century Tremonnow, at that time in Devon (now in Glousing).

Devon remained in political union with Kernow through the Kernovan Conjuring of 1028 and the concomitant formation of the First Drengot Empire, which claimed control over much of Albion and most of Gaul. Greater Devon became an ambitious and independent-minded vassal of the Empire, with the House of Kernow always closely aligned with the imperial Drengot family.

The collapse of the First Drengot Empire caused political upheaval in Greater Devon. The Realignment of 1225 saw Devon become de facto independent from Kernow, now ruled by a cadet branch of the royal family.

However, Devon's independence would not last long; Ivan of Cartaw conquered Devon as part of the various Welsh territorial gains of the thirteenth century. Soon thereafter David IV of Wales declared the Tallath of Devon (and awarded rule thereof to Ivan's son Marduth).

People

Monarchs of Greater Devon

Vigo the Magnificent (Vigo Ragórwyh, d. 761), who led the reconquest of Devon from Kernow
Cadern the Doubter (crowned 761), son of Vigo the Magnificent
Alan III (crowned 883), who lost territory in Kernow to the Franks
Vigo IV (fl. 940), last monarch to be crowned in the original cathedral of Nauned
Vigo VII (fl. 1120), who attempted without success to conquer the southeastern principalities of Wales
Alan VI (fl. 1225), who orchestrated the Realignment of Devon

Nobility

Golleck/Gorvan of Kernow (fl. c9), granted dominion over Devon by his uncle Alan III
Iseld of Devon (fl. 750), daughter of Vigo the Magnificent and first patron of the Brethin
Margaret of Iscombe (Marerit o Gar Ix, fl. 1435), mother of Vascony's Ambrose the Ascendant

Others

Arteth Výn (fl. c19), friend of Vascon author Antòin Herrel (Tony Smith) after the latter's exile to Devon
Damian the Wise (fl. c12), the first Pope to be elected from among the Brethin religious order