7.5: The Terrene Tax

excerpt taken from the condensed study materials (2008 N, fourth edition) for the course Histoir Concorrent, s16 : Mort, Vascel eð y Motion Celest (in English, Concurrence History of the 16th Century: Death, Ships and the Movement of the Heavens) taught at the New Vithor School and based on the normal itineraries from Cordin Editions.

…saphires purpel and petal embroderie” to church, although the veracity of this account is disputed.

However, one should be careful not to construe the strengthening negotiating position of the peasantry with respect to their landlords as a broad levelling of the hierarchies of sixteenth-century Europe. In many places central authorities (usually monarchs, although bear in mind the Latin republics—in particular Provence—as well as the eastern patriarchates) took swift advantage of the local nobility's declining power in order to consolidate their own. For example, it has been argued that this process in Rome led directly to the Great Fracture and the accession of the Triunvirato (about which more in Section 13: Revitalist Art and Theory).

After the death of Joseph III in 1534 N (accusations of an unnatural demise have been sporadically levelled but are unsubstantiable), his nephew and successor Brandon II almost immediately sought to exploit his position by levying a terrene tax on landholders across the land. His uncle having never succeeded in producing a natural-born heir, despite several illegitimate children by his various mistresses, Brandon would have been well aware of his inheritance and seems to have spent much of the decades prior winning hearts and minds at court.

There are two consequences of this tax which we will discuss here. The first is that, due to the necessity of an accurate account of the land held by…