73.5: Ambrosia

Ambrosia (Vascon/Vask Ambroxa) is a polity of north-eastern Mendeva, comprising several islands and much of the mainland up to the Five Seas. It borders New Provence to the south.

History

The story of Ambrosia begins with the Novomundine Landfall of 1471, when Vetomundine travellers encountered Mendeva for the first time since sporadic visits by the Norse. A Vask fishing expedition (part of the New Navarre Enterprise) landed on the island of Brasil, which would go on to host the first European settlements in Mendeva.

The parts of Mendeva first explored by (and whose trade was monopolised by) Vascony—to wit, the island of Brasil and the lands westward thereof—was named Ambrosia in honour of Ambrose III of Vascony.

Ambrosia achieved political and economic independence from Vascony in the early nineteenth century as part of the continent-wide phenomenon of the Mendevan Unmooring.

The first long-distance transmission of an image took place in Ambrosia in 1820, employing the so-called Steeplepost Tapestry (consisting of a wall of tiles painted black and white on each side). This device would soon go on to be the subject of the infamous Lies of 1824.

By the 1880s the most urbanised parts of Ambrosia were connected by wired tachygraph, allowing messages to be sent from home to home.

In 1950 the Japetos submarine Atlantic link conveyed its first messages. It was laid down between Gadire in Morrack and eastern Brasil.

Places

Aiga d'Angoixa, a major city on the Oxagre River and location of the original Steeplepost Tapestry

Illa de Vinna Salvatge, a built-up island in the Oxagre

Paratzon, a town in eastern Brasil

People

Fabian Mostàf (fl. c19), astronomer who worked at the observatory at Paratzon

Cristòf Unquenjica (fl. 1971), author of popular history text Going to Brasil