76.5: The Workshop Period

The Workshop period, or the Global Workshop, refers to the middle decades of the nineteenth century. It is characterised by the rapid expansion and development of industry across the world. Usual historiography places the Workshop period between the Long Peace and the Good Game.

The Workshop period brought prosperity to parts of Europe which had been devastated by the Second German War of the 1820s, such as the Riverine Cities.

The impact of the Workshop period can be seen in artistic trends, with the shift away from voidtales and towards (on the one hand) realistic portrayals of the industrial working class and (on the other) optimistic speculation on future material advancements.

The guild VS (Vindrons Sairzaus), which sold the first widely-sold aphlox wine, would in this period expand its scope to other high-pressure and sealing components in manufacture, securing a very profitable niche.

The late Workshop period saw many barrick breakthroughs, concentrated in eastern Europe and Lower Mendeva.

The Drengot Collusion arose among the French polities of this period. The contemporaneous New Urban Mesh (including London and Axbane, among others) was subsumed by—or took control of—the nascent Collusion.

Many items of vocabulary were innovated in the Workshop period, including recoil "manufacture", underwrit "logo", counterzoic "anti-microbial" and retainer "IUD".

References
Albic Medicine in the Workshop Decades, a series of volumes by Dr Harold Westcamp published by the Conster Health Edifice, funded by the Markland Ministry for Health.