8.5: Vikings in Dumnonia

in excerpt from reference quire On the Dane Supremacy in Kernow [Brittany] and the Creation of Normandy, written by University of Thelmass [Le Mans] deixist historian Professor Jockin Abiscander and published (originally in Norman as Soth Prominence Dask en Cornow doth Genese Normande) in 1934 by the school's printers.

…his thrice great-grandfather Vigo the Magnificent, however tempting the comparison might be from a modern perspective.

Crowned only three years earlier in 883 N and having already suffered the blow of losing the Siege of Avron and ceding the fort and town to the expanding territories of Duke Fargot, who had been appointed by Rothed the Canny to the march, Alan III of Dumnonia cannot be said to have enjoyed an auspicious early reign. Almost the only source of stability in the realm was the loyalty of his vassal and nephew Gorvan of Kernow (or Golleck, accounts differ) to whom Alan had granted dominion of Devon.

Most pressing was the inexorable rise in Viking activity along the coast. Raids along the Seine and the Orne had begun in earnest some decades prior, but now spread west; even the monastery at Landvennick was burned to the ground in 888 N. Nor were the Danes' activities confined to looting; on both sides of the Channel war leaders took advantage of political instability (the collapse of Wessex in the north and the Lombard disputes in the south) to conquer territory and settle. There is evidence of such Danish settlement even past the Vire river, part of the Franco-Dumnonian border as agreed in the eighth-century Catumagin Accords, although when this fiefdom was officially ceded by the Franks in the tenth century to form Normandy the Vire remained the border.

Later in-migration of the Normans (including here in Thelmass) aside, one might be forgiven for imagining that a weakened Frankish presence at Dumnonia's borders would be a boon for…