83.5: Loveless Lepzi

Lepzi is the capital city of Saxony, located on the Bleak Alstre.

History
Lepzi first acted as political centre for the First Kingdom of Saxony, very briefly just prior to its collapse at the close of the thirteenth century. The Houghbrocken dynasty ruled from there for some years before being removed to Magdeburg when the house was reduced to the four-year-old Marksman Baldur.

With the conclusion of the First German War in 1770, Saxony was ascendant and controlled more territory than it had at any point in its history. Lepzi was subject to attendant early urbanisation and trebled in population in just fifty years. It was one of the vanguards of the Global Workshop period, exploiting vast amounts of locally-mined coal power.

The Blue Marian Society, which agitated for inheritance and suffrage law reforms, was founded in the nineteenth century in Lepzi.

People
Albert Siegert (fl. 1744), owner of a leatherworking and cobbling industry based in Lepzi
Elsebeth Sneider (m. 1772, d. ~1830), author and originator of the voidtale craze with her 1795 work Through a Black Mirror
Otto Sneider (m. 1772), scholar at the Leipzi Sterncundhaus

---

Rachel Desselut (fl. 1743) was a French philosopher. She is best remembered for her 1743 work The Parable of the Mute Bookbinder, which discusses problems of infinite regression and of identity.

She was born to Maurice Desselut, eighth Lord Bouvoin, who was a writer and explorer. Fittingly he was also an infamous libertine (the house name Desselut deriving from an Old French word meaning dissolute, philandering).

She was the first to lay out in our modern terms the philosophical distinction between Form and Method, which allows an entity to self-replicate (constructing its Form from the Method's instructions, then transcribing the Method blindly). These concepts would go on to be vital in the study of methodics and to general augrimmer practice.

Desselut inferred from her work the existence of a vital language, now known to be composed of heredian acid.