89.5: Second Tetrarchy

The Second Tetrarchy, in older works also called the Medieval Imperia, refers to the period of roughly two centuries at the dawn of second-millennium Europe when a good deal of the land was (at least nominally) under the jurisdiction of four empires: the First Drengot Empire, the German Empire, the Second Roman Empire, and the Single Caliphate.

The name "Second Tetrarchy" was first used in the eighteenth century by the writings of Vascon historian David Bensaíd, in reference to the Roman Tetrarchy of the early fourth century, although the two political regimes had little else in common.

The First Drengot Empire began with the Kernovan Conjuring of 1028, when Normandy conquered Kent with the support of Greater Devon. Over the next years House Drengot went on to consolidate lands from the Middlesea to Edinbrough.

This unity endured until the Emergency at Dijon in 1170, when the Kingdom of Burgundy ceased to be a Drengot vassal; the empire was formally dissolved in 1191 and divided among the heirs and allies of Daniel IV.

The German Empire descended from the eastern half of the expansive Kingdom of the Franks after its scission in the ninth century, combining the Eastern Franks with Willemy. In its first centuries it expanded east and south; the kingdoms of Saxony and Bavarn became the empire's preeminent vassals, with their Andex and Houghbrocken dynasties ruling in turn.

By the end of the twelfth century, the northern cities were developing into the mercantile Stadbund and away from imperial authority. The slow erosion of the German Empire accelerated rapidly during the German Secession of the thirteenth century, and by the end of that century the fiction of a surviving German Empire was laid to rest with the corpse of the first Kingdom of Saxony.

The Second Roman Empire had existed since the (short-lived) reconquest of Rome from the Eastern Goths by Justinian I in 536; it would persist in some form for over a millennium. The eleventh and twelfth centuries did see the empire reach a territorial maximum, controlling territory from Corsica in the west to Derban on the Hazaran Sea in the east.

It was only in the late seventeenth century that the Second Roman Empire ceased to exist in any meaningful sense (despite several periods of only nominal continuity), due to a succession crisis and a series of dramatic civil wars.

The Single Caliphate stretched from Spain to Persia, and was the product of several centralisation reforms from Cairo consolidating authority over the various successor states to the Abbasid Caliphate (although the further territories such as Cordova or the Turkish lands were never as closely-ruled).