91.5: Millstone War

The Millstone War (1897–1908) refers to the period of global military conflict often considered as the dawn of modern warfare. Though not all of the wars involved spanned the entire eleven years, they are all characterised by a fundamental asymmetry: defensive tactics had outstripped offensive technology, and so front lines worldwide ground to barely-moving trench fortifications.

The Millstone War marks the end of the Good Game period; its aftermath saw a comprehensive realignment of the previous system of alliances.

The last years of the Millstone War saw the first military use of aircraft, as well as air-bombing of cities including Marsella in Provence.

Political tensions rose globally in the decades after the Millstone War, as the inadequacy of the post-war settlements became apparent. In particular, relations between Drengot Collusion and their southern neighbours of Vascony and Provence quickly soured.

---

Honorine Maignard (fl. 1890–1940) was an author in France active for over fifty years in the early twentieth century. She was the granddaughter of the Lombard diplomat Audace Saviano, who during the Good Game period was instrumental in the formation of the Italian Concert.

During the Millstone War she served in the Second Medic Force of Valois for more than six years.

---

Vincent Margouille (fl. 1960–1990) was a Norman author and professional lineball player. In 1965 he led the Kent team to its only victory in the Lineball Global Tourney to date. He is the son of Vréqueu Margouille, who also played for Kent in the 1935 LGT.

From 1981 on, he authored his best-known series (beginning with Upstairs, Downstairs), which follows the people living in a manorhouse during the Good Game period. Later instalments portray their experiences during the Millstone War.