92.5: Marsella

Marsella (Provincial /masˈseʎɔ/; Borlish Marsegl /maʀˈsijl/) is a city on the Middlesea [Mediterranean] and the capital of Provence.

History

A raid by itinerant Norman mercenaries sacked the city of Marsella in 946 N, nominally on behalf of the Malchassian Romans. As it happens, records of this raid contain the first unambiguous mention of identical triplets (Danes born on the isle of Mull around 915) in European history.

In the Second Tetrarchy period of the eleventh and twelfth centuries, Marsella was a major population centre in Burgundy within the First Drengot Empire.

During the Vascon Ascendancy, the region of Provence (including Marsella) was conquered by Vascony. Burgundy's reconquest in 1494 caused so much instability that the region rose up in revolt, sparking the 1497–99 War of Provincial Independence.

Newly-independent Provence led by Daniel Menton, Lord Amigòt, established Marsella as its capital. It is generally understood that he wanted to monitor the piratical allies of Barcelon who had ruled the city de facto for some time.

By the turn of the seventeenth century there were multiple weekly newspapers operating from Marsella. None of these remained in print until the modern day; the earliest extant publications—such as the entertainment and recreation newspaper Fiellas Dimenja—were incorporated in the nineteenth century.

During the Millstone War in the early twentieth century, Marsella suffered heavy air-bombing as part of the world's first such use of aircraft in wartime.

Today Marsella is famed for its midsummer celebrations which also commemorate the anniversary of its independence from Burgundy.