95.5: mancel "sleeve"

mancel /manˈtsɛl/ [mɐnˈtsɛl]
- sleeve, the part of a garment which covers the arm;
- channel, strait, a narrow band of water between two landmasses;
- (with definite article) the Kentish Channel, the strait between Albion and Gaul;
- subsidiary, branch, franchise, a location or company owned by a parent company

Etymology: via Old Borlish mancel "sleeve" from Vulgar Latin manicella "little sleeve", diminutive of synonymous manica in Classical Latin.

Cascif aun y mancel dou colour destegnt?
/kaˈxɪf on i manˈtsɛl du koˈlur dɛˈstijnt/
[kɐˈçɪf on i mɐnˈtsɛl du kʊˈlʊː dɪˈstijnt]
why have.3p df sleeve two colour different
Why are the sleeves two different colours?

---

Roman Papacy

The Papacy in Rome is the spiritual seat of much of Christendom.

Despite intermittent conflicts with the Greek patriarchs and several abortive antipope lineages, the Roman Papacy remained the ultimate authority over all Christendom until the German Secession of the early thirteen century. This created a lasting competing seat in the Augsburg See which did not recognise the Roman Papacy's legitimacy.

The Great Fracture of the mid-sixteenth century severely diminished the temporal powers of the Papacy. While on paper the Pope in Rome remained an absolute ruler (along with political dominion over several smaller Italian and German provinces), in practice the new Triunvirato had political dominion over the city of Rome.

People

Mercury II (fl. 590), who took a particular interest in Borland as a stronghold of Christianity in the north
Agatho (1001–1026), who canonised David, patron saint of Wales
Nuntius (fl. ca. 1100), who instituted a reform of the Julian calendar and moved the New Year to the 1st of March
Damian V (1110-1121), born Humbert of Ravenna in 1047
Damian VI (1199–1208), called 'the Wise', and first member of the Brethin in the role
Just (1208–), who called for a renewed Crusade for Jerusalem in 1210 (known to history as the Failed Crusade)
Hermeneus II (fl. ca. 1250), more totalist than his predecessors in reaction to the German Secession and instigator of the Baptism of the North