97.5: entrcollocq "interview"

entrcollocq /ˌɛn.tr̩.kɔˈlɔk/ [ˌɛn.tɐ.kʊˈlɔk]
- interview, a conversation between a journalist and their subject;
- discussion, dialogue, chat, conference, roundtable, any conversation intended for (possibly eventual) public consumption;

Etymology: 19th-century coinage from entr- "between, among" and collocq "conversation", from collocquar "to converse". This reflects Latin colloquor "I discuss, speak with".

L'entrcollocq indiglað se cou evolgað.
/ˌlɛn.tr̩.kɔˈlɔk ˌɪn.dajˈlaθ se ku ˌe.vɔlˈgaθ/
[ˌlɛn.tɐ.kʊˈlɔk ˌɪn.dɐjˈlah se ku ˌe.vʊlˈgah]
df=interview n-erase-p.pst rfl get.pst promulgate-p.pst
The unredacted interview got leaked.

---

Britain

Britain (Cambrick Prydein) is a polity of Albion centred on Wales but extending through Devon and Dunclothe and out to Kernow and parts of Ireland.

History
The Kingdom of Britain was founded in the fifteenth century, formalising the suzerainty of Wales over the tallaths of Devon and Dunclothe. The state profited greatly from the Wars of Fealty of the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries which raged across the rest of Albion.

Britain's economic success at this time drove ventures in Africa. Resupply ports along the western coast eventually allowed for the flourishing of direct sea trade between Europe and Asia.

The seventeenth century saw the dawn of British exploration of the Novomund, founding staddomains along the southern Gulf. These would coalesce into several polities known collectively as British Mendeva over the next centuries, the largest of which is Hasiny. Britain here found itself in conflict with Provence's settlements on the east coast; for example, the Sack of Santrafew was undertaken by an alliance of British and Mastoiset forces.

After the Chrysian Landfall, emigration from Britain (along with more formal state-building enterprise from Cathay) helped form the modern polity of New Leudong.

In the latter years of the nineteenth century, British Mendeva overtook Britain in population and industry. Nonetheless, Britain retained some cultural prestige over the Novomundine polities. In part this was sustained via migration of many members of the 'new rich' across the Atlantic, and the resultant intertwining of the respective upper-class societies through marriage. It is debated whether this prestige accelerated the export of Household Renovation social mores from Britain to Mendeva.

References
A Cyclopædia of British Persons (third edition), written by Wolfston Potter and published by the Yievle Brethin Primers in 1870