1.1: Jet and Diamond

    excerpt in translation from the early chapters of masquira trevold Men of Jet and Diamond, published (originally in Welsh as Dynnon o Vuhuð a Diamont) by Hasinick Welshman Cadogan Torrior in 1890, shortly after he graduated from the University of Nadacow as a scholar of diplomacy.

Posc un demy hour, vastel scoclettað magn demay eð un acquetta de limon scencað auvorn, Zoe descenoy y novel leyour peripaton quaucant e gasau y gið embrostað.
Half an hour, far too much shockled cake and a generous glass of limmon acquetta later, Zoe strode out of the new unmanned lifter and peered at the ornate signposts.

Y cla ne man aye inscaunç sarvent d'un auçel fylau eð un catr keren ne lettranç net, e donc aulau i lonc y colloir combinant fin a sy port yembr, stant impos ny mur cos soutil. 
The key in her hand was helpfully inscribed with a fullaw bird and the number four in neat script, so she turned down the corresponding corridor until she found her door, set discreetly into the wall.

Entarn, y bevey a cambr (vertaðer, noc magn may a picq salon e quelt n'un eðegl) sta apprestað lonc y barstant novessem de Morrac, toð pieðry revelað con tapeçment e vriðel penent.
Inside, the set of rooms (really, not much more than a small parlour and a bed in an alcove) was decorated in the latest Morrack fashions, all exposed stonework draped in tapestries and curtains.

L'augher ag cogn aye meðes ans ne form de naðr.
The ewer in the corner even had a handle in the shape of a viper.