102.1: The Jacobin Fraternity

Y Fraterntað Jagovin, cos historic tan connuð sou nom dell'Orn a Sagnt Jagm, es un communtað religious y citað Ausbagn hamtant ag rimot souðer n'Istr Boral.
The Jacobin Fraternity, historically also known as the Order of Saint James, is a religious organisation based in the city of Axbane on the south coast of Borland.

Y Fraterntað er instaurað ne Flandr ag siecr deg sou y patronnement d'Amegl de Brug. Ag siecr onç l'oc er envoluð com conjuraçonnour n'un smout pouvlancer vecin contrell'Emperour Drengoçan Joffrey II eð obligað a enfugr tras mar vars Istr Boral. La costroyeurn il y Monastir Peninsoler ancour Ausbagn surplombant.
The Fraternity was founded in tenth-century Flanders under the patronage of Amelia of Bruges. In the eleventh century it was implicated in a local popular uprising against Drengot Emperor Geoffry II and forced to flee over the sea to Borland. There they built the Peninsular Monastery which still overlooks Axbane.

Moneð des y Fraterntað droughau ag Palaç Jagovin ny ci bandlau atorn de Damvað, eç posc lorry compliscenç ag siecr ogtoç nuverrem denent y posson fis por y parolment borallesc.
Funds from the Fraternity contributed to the Jacobin Estates on the outskirts of Damvath, which on their completion in the late eighteenth century became the fixed location of Borland's parliament.

Sceint oy l'orn es reconnuð cos majortaðer por y colluy seyon aut, Yeustman Jaibos, tan com eiðel spanent ny citað posseyent (ig inclus y plaç dell'un parmy y bagn roman antic la).
Today the organisation is known mostly for the guild they own, Jaibos Breweries, as well as for owning significant lands in the city (including the site of one of the ancient Roman bathhouses there).