105.1: Parachthony

excerpt in translation on the topic of parachthony (speculative fiction/sci-fi and fantasy).

Y siecr novoç a plaç meg intermane un nazir naðusc cas art parachthon.
The mid-nineteenth century was somewhat of a nadir for parachthon art.

Romanç desmanneça vars y jagat cojanessem de masquira e cont de kiveu, cant resorgenç historic hamtan y scen mondial.
Romance moved on to masquira and herdtale's more mundane settings, while historical revivals populated the world's stages.

Cosogr y pluottanç de spaiðoir ag siecr veint ençau nos a l'incorporaçon volonter veir de mornç parachthon afont de stoir allors, com cont d'amour eð enigma;
With the maturation of genres in the twentieth century we begin to see purposeful melding of parachthon elements in stories of other sorts, like lovetales and ænigmata;

l'oc tan eð y sousunçon de barstant comportant com Futurism ramenaurn parachthony alcheðr jug nell'eutað.
this and the incorporation of related movements like Futurism brought parachthony back into popular art for good.   

Y defas de machinaçon er mout ammont par ouvr parachthon, e donc sonc plusour nell'onomatoir orðenjanç modern nommant aun lorrell'orn ec destr.
The progress of technology was often presaged by parachthon works, and so many items of vocabulary for modern contrivances have their origin there.

Com bustr, y 'sar pistol' vien colombant des y fougl dy trevold d'an 1968 'Kenopleus', par Ashford Pasquier.
As an example, the 'pistol mesh' is lifted from the pages of Ashford Pasquier's 1968 novel 'Starsail'.