107.1: Convoy Australier

sentences in translation on the topic of the Christian organisation the Convoy Australier (officially the Order of Saint Hemma of Still Water).

Ag siecr iniçal posc sell'inceuçon sta y Convey Australier de natur ceu band glorfiað (toð a verb) de batman.
In the first decades of its existence the Convoy Australier was in essence a (quite literally) glorified band of mercenaries.

L'oc aye se pleis auvorn dell'eç mordeth eð y confraðr primer, des y Prinçipaltað de Mystra ny Greç vars y fallout imparyent a Jerusalem.
It was heavily involved in the first crusades and related ventures, from the Principality of Mystra in Greece to the unsuccessful forays in Jerusalem. 

L'oc fo cargað con y mission d'y stat novel n'Antioch eð y Havan Simon administrar tost posc lorry concarnç ag siecr doç.
It was appointed to administrate the new states of Antioch and Port Simon soon after their conquests in the twelfth century.

Pap Just emmenau y gournanç d'Antioch eð y Havan Simon des y Convey d'an 1208 com outrcaum d'un calver offirnt entr facçon.
Pope Just revoked the Convoy's rulership of Antioch and Port Simon in 1208 as the culmination of a escalating inter-faction struggle.

Interim, concordað cos general es ig l'oc act erreveu y Convey des un fujon d'eromn tandem (deut ag mescainç porrujonnant dy Mordeth Disceint).
However, it is generally agreed that this act saved the Convoy a great amount of trouble in the long run (given the imminent disaster of the Failed Crusade).