118.1: London

notes in translation on the subject of the city of London.

Posc un liesc com citað seconder n'Albion, Londr redenoy alcheðr y cafloy imperial ny region durant y Scon Tetrarchy ne sona d'un part dy Preu Empir Drengoçan.
After time as a secondary city in Albion, London became the imperial capital of the region once more during the Second Tetrarchy as part of the First Drengot Empire.

Y Preu Ðurnç a Londr fis loy d'an 1290; ag mendrem 400 hom ern occis deut ag catastroph d'un semman cohernt.
The First Burning of London took place in 1290; at least 400 people were killed in the ensuing week-long disaster.

L'oc no sta for un parmy conflagraçon plusour ny preu demy dy scon millenner, bempart dec y citað se cou cos saçonner concas des y norð ben y souð.
This was one of several conflagrations in the first half of the second millennium, many due to the city being perennially conquered from the north or south.

Posc l'eç Rix Democratic a plaç meg ny siecr ogtoç yemoy Londr cos final un autonomy durabr deur sy païs vecin d'an 1749 sou Quen Margaret, poðent sy caðen ancestral ligar ag linaç reyal de Marclont e Cant y dou. L'offiç de Segr Bourgmer remane possent cos politic aðief por hast pareïr coll'oç dy nou monarch, interim. 
The Democratic Wars of the mid-eighteenth century saw London finally gain lasting independence from its neighbours in 1748 under Queen Margaret, who could trace her ancestry to the royal families of both Markland and Kent. The office of Lord Mayor remained politically powerful enough to rival that of the new monarch, however.