126.1: Secret Notes

excerpt in translation from the 1930 work Notas a Hurt "Secret Notes", an example of the spycraft genre written in Vascony by author Micolau Zorriqueta (whose similar series of works about a Huzatre detective is more widely remembered).

Martin scoutau y baðrment durant hour monfeyað e fo mesteyað n'yembr scið posc i lançau ogl a sell'orlosc a caðen ig for veint minut n'ern laundað.
Martin listened to the ensemble for several hours and was disappointed to discover when he glanced at his watch that only twenty minutes had passed.

Cos ouveg i recuidau ig Jacq n'aye besogn aut de sy presenç la bogr; l'ec fardig a torriot dont Martin aye sy parcorrenç oïð ig crevoscr ayen son nervous e meðes foyaçant.
Sullenly he reflected that James hadn't needed him in attendance at all; the bassoon solos Martin had heard him rehearsing last night sounded confident and even virtuosic.

Manifest tan sta ig lorry caf maldigt au l'orn enter recompos.
It was also apparent that the accursed leader had rearranged the programme.

Y cæros de Jacq caint zaressem vole avenir ag liesc outr dy crevoscr, e donc Martin poðe noc meðes sortir ortellent ag tarnot dy loy ny hiat.
James's biggest moment would come right at the end of the evening, so Martin couldn't even sneak out to the venue's bar at the interval.

Intermane un ovartur des l'ig melodram dont l'au se caut emmenað an scenanç lascer e soulor invectivað avars durant dou hour.
It was an overture from that opera he'd been dragged to a film staging of and subsequently ranted at about for two hours.

Sceyen hombeul ant cinq pie entarn, i creye—pu veram i n'aye alcun nis prestað la.
There were monsters with five feet in it, he thought—although he really hadn't been paying attention.