127.1: Medieval Empire

excerpt in translation on the Second Roman Empire [~the Byzantines] in the high medieval period.

Ne souc dy ruin dy Lombardesc norðer n'Italy, y linaç regnant enfugheurn vars l'Empir e sceurn autortað remarcabr allaçar la.
Following the fall of the northern Lombards in Italy, the ruling family fled to the Empire and managed to obtain appreciable clout there. 

Pieç sodal se courn lorry ascreuçon com agathin por y them ovester nell'Empir, eð y tesmogn scaut par eç autr intermann l'inquit historic y confiablessem cas occorrenç particuler durant y scompigl dy Secession German ny siecr treç.
Some members were appointed to administer the Empire's western themes, and the written accounts of others are history's strongest sources for certain events during the turmoil of the German Secession in the thirteenth century.

Stant dissoluð n'un form vabian closnautr naðusc, a mesur dy siecr catorç venoirn recostroinç effus dy cathedral Sant Sophia tan com spanjon dy quaðeglad, dirigið pall'architect Borgond Nicolà s'Avignon.
Having fallen into somewhat of a state of disrepair, the fourteenth century saw extensive reconstruction of Saint Sophia's cathedral along with expansion of the complex, headed by Burgund architect Nicolà s'Avignon.

Deut all'oc es ig s'Avignon dign parveg e cos joculant y dobanç de "l'architect dy ruin dell'Empir", la sceint y cainç tragic volent se produgr afont dy Sant Sophia aval de tre cent annað.
It is for this reason that s'Avignon is sometimes jocularly referred to as the "architect of the Empire's demise", given the tragic events that would take place within Saint Sophia's three hundred years later.