135.1: A Hotel in Nadacow

excerpt in translation from the early chapters of masquira trevold Men of Jet and Diamond, published (originally in Welsh as Dynnon o Vuhuð a Diamont) by Hasinick Welshman Cadogan Torrior in 1890, shortly after he graduated from the University of Nadacow as a scholar of diplomacy.

Tandic y ðorof dy crevoscr descenn y scagl vars y pascman, Zoe se met afaç eð expatey pall'exedr gran dy davarn.
As the evening crowds make their way to the restaurant, Zoe starts to meander through the hotel's grand atrium.

Y placcou fay survol dessur n'un emblemat de veðr entaccað jout jaint sur y paið ne mamour polið.
The ceiling soars above, a mosaic of stained glass casting patterns on the polished marble floor.

Zoe parcour un porrujon adornað oc y gardin cloistað dessou surplombant, yon scey un stanc scaudr reflecçon tenent de lumner lougent de constellaçon faus inquillið ny fastig corvað.
Zoe crosses an ornate mezzanine overlooking the indoor gardens below, where a shallow pond reflects the twinkling lights of false constellations embedded in the domed roof.

Posc y crasc d'un port defonct, Zoe egrey ortellent ny rout kieð deur y davarn.
With the creak of a disused door, Zoe slips into the quiet streets outside the hotel.

L'aer es fresc, y fler portant d'un bris des y Bahassassin e d'uncos douç des y cociner jos camin dont i memour y stal passant oc jorn paravant.
The air is cool, scented with a breeze from the Bahassassin and something sweet from the streetside cooks whose stalls she remembers passing earlier that day.