138.1: Avosche

notes in translation on the region of Avosche (Paris French /aˈvɔːʃ/, Willem Dutch /ˈa.vusx/) in Willemy [Lotharingia].

Y region d'Avosc dey nom a sy linaç regnant primer, oç sey meðes sy grad prenent de sy fondour Cuonrat Aihuosc (inquittað ne Latin com Corradus Aevoscus).
The region Avosche is named for its first ruling house, which in turn takes its title from its founder Cuonrat Aihuosc (seen in Latin as Corradus Aevoscus).

Y nom a un origin obscur; se poð appondr ig y sodal primer se dey ag German Classic *ehu-* "coval", cant y dovem se dey parcanç ag fin *-iscas* "-esc" (pu sy voyal apport vandy).
The name is of obscure origin; the first element presumably reflects Classical German *ehu-* "horse", while the second may be from suffix *-iscas* "-ish" (though the vowel is problematic).

Confereð y surnom Anglesc Davush, oc stant congenið des un mancel nothe de Linaç Avosc.
Compare the English surname Davush, which derives from an illegitimate branch of House Avosche.

Y Comtað d'Avosc smarc pog asc apres dy dehiscenç dy Reyaum dy Frankesc e dy creaçon cohernt de Willemy.
The County of Avosche emerges shortly after the split of the Kingdom of the Franks and the concomitant creation of Willemy.

Y linaç fondant d'Avosc fo surrun apres par mejan de mariðaç eut doutr par y Linaç Nassou collindant (oc sell'orin ayent ne Francony).
The founding house of Avosche was soon after superseded by marriage by the neighbouring House Nassow (which originated in Francony).