146.1: 2nd Lexember - deunx "close shave"

deunx /daunks/ [daunks]
- near thing, close call, close shave, a situation where an injury or other undesirable outcome is narrowly avoided;
- (interj.) an expression of shock or relief at such a situation;

deunx fair
- get lucky, dodge a bullet, to narrowly escape an undesirable outcome

Etymology: university slang among the Vithor New School's students, attested there from the eighteenth century and entering the wider lexicon some decades afterwards. The noun is a borrowing from Latin deunx "eleven twelfths", related to uncia "one twelfth". The story linking its modern usage to a twelve-man jury is almost certainly false; more likely is simply the sense of being almost but not quite the whole thing.

Nos farreu noc deunx cossy alcheðr.
/nɔz faˈrau nɔk daunks kɔˈsi alˈkɛðr̩/
[nɔz fɐˈʀau nɔg daunks kʊˈsi ɐˈgɛ.ðɐ]
1p do-fut.1p ng close.shave thus again
We won't get so lucky again.

---

The Deviance movement

notes in translation on the subject of the Deviance movement (also called Anti-Paradise Theology).

Un ouvr primal signfeyant por y commouð a Desveyanç sta l'ediçon lon nom 'E Nos Amareu y Foy', ençant a s'evolgar d'an 1799 eð offiruð par sdegn cas rigteç incommorant.
An important early work to the Deviance movementhm was the anonymously-published 'And We Will Love the Fire', which began circulating in 1799 to immediate moral outrage.

Con tan scein pres un doçan de possibiltað creibr soumis cos serious por cuscon sta sy scrittour, jamay no scey alcun accort acavað sull'oc them.
Though almost a dozen plausible candidates for its authorship have been seriously proposed, no consensus has ever been reached on the issue.

Y commouð a Desveyanç joun coincideu coll'ersteigon dy nuton a trevogt deshormejað par y livr d'an 1795 par Elsebeth Sneider 'Par un Argent Neir'.
The early Deviance movement coincided with the height of the voidtale craze launched by Elsebeth Sneider's 1795 trevold 'Through a Black Mirror'.

Plusour dell'eç idea introdoit n'ouvr a trevogt se courn sousunt afont de theology Contr-Paradis, eð y commouð au taur a l'eç ouvr de Sneider adoptar cos particuler.
Many of the ideas conjured in voidtale works were incorporated into Anti-Paradise theology, and Sneider's works in particular were embraced by the movement.

Interim, Sneider meðes abhorre y doctrin Contr-Paradis; lonc sy parol meðes:
However, Sneider herself despised Anti-Paradism; in her own words:

"Cay doutr lorrell'idea stragn e lorrell'univers solumnesc e nienter, car Thifäne, pu tan ig bempart alcot de lou aun me traitað com ða jo sey lorry confraðr l'evidendessem!"
“It is not only their strange ideas and lonely, nihilist universe, dear Thifäne, but that so many of their number have approached me as if I were their most natural ally!”