148.1: 16th Lexember - prophthan "faster than light"

prophthan /prɔfˈθan/ [pʁʊfˈθan]
- faster than light, FTL, superluminal, travelling more quickly than the so-called "normal speed" of ten great leagues per second;
- (informal) at warp speed, double-time, lightning fast, with any extremely rapid pace

Etymology: coined in 1949 by Napolitan author Ludgia Pitceri as awareness of the normal speed entered popular culture and parachthon (fantasy/sci-fi) writers reached for various justifications for speedy interstellar travel. The word is a borrowing from Scholastic Greek προφθάνων • prophthánōn "preceding, overtaking", from φθάνω • phthánō "I precede, overtake". In its imprecise use the word is attested from the 1970s.

Capitan, cay uncos inovrant cas y motour prophthan.
/ˌka.piˈtan | ke ɪnˈkɔz ˌi.nɔˈvrant kaz i moˈtur prɔfˈθan/
[ˌka.piˈtan | ke ɪŋˈkɔz ˌi.nʊˈvʀant kaz i mʊˈtʊː pʀʊfˈθan]
captain | fall sth out.of.order wrt df engine FTL
Captain, something's gone wrong with the warp drive.

---

Maths and Gossip

excerpt in translation from the correspondence of Darren Brodus to Niklás der Fecht; this letter was sent in 1828.

Y majon livr a me fornið tandem con y homily de Dümmeyer a them de tas e mission; jo nil attendr a te molfeyar ne fegndr a aïr le leut, ma se poð t'aiçar ig jo vil l'hour stovent benoçar l'oc semman meðes!
The library has finally provided me with Dümmeyer's treatise on class and delivery; I will not appease you by pretending to have read it, but be assured I will find the hours for it this very week!

Car Johan flagit ig l'es tout theology inutr des l'atmospher, ma contrig Johan da fieltað a alcun mathematic posc y livr de Craddock sur roum a lonctumn.
Dear Johan insists it is all atmospherical and futile nonsense, but then Johan trusts no mathematics since Craddock's book on distance rooms.

Vertað volent so jo soupris ig l'acquïsc por y method machinal meðes benoçar, me j'appon ig i n'a veram un test ossos aðief por se rendr sy modellaçon n'atelier defaglessem.
Honestly I'm surprised he consents to use even the mechanical methods, but I suppose he isn't quite bone-headed enough to make his workshop designing more difficult for himself.

Es tu pretenent vars eir ne souð l'oc stað?
Have you any plans to go south this summer?

J'oy il voun l'area ne Veron rallumar alcheðr por parform—rumorað es ig Al Igne par Bruno sera y primer la scenað posc y var!
I hear they shall reopen the arena in Verona to performances—they say Bruno's Wings Afire will be the first shown there since the war!