149.1: 23rd Lexember - nuton "fad"

nuton /niˈtɔn/ [nɪˈtɔn]
- will-o'-the-wisp, marshlight, ignis fatuus, a pale flickering light appearing at night over swampland;
- caprice, whim, fancy, vagary, an idle impulse or idea;
- fad, fashion, craze, rage, a short-lived general public interest in something

Etymology: Middle Borlish borrowing from various French forms such as luiton, nuitin, lutin, neton, all meaning "sea monster; mischievous spirit; will-o'-the-wisp". These appear to have been influenced by luire "shine" and nuit "night"; the oldest form is netun "sea monster", which descends from Latin Neptunus "the sea god Neptune".

The second sense is seen from as early as the sixteenth century; the last only in the twentieth.

Lor sceye un nuton a tapeçment e pieðr nuaç.
/lɔr xiˈje ɪn niˈtɔn a ˌta.pɛtsˈmɛnt e ˈpjɛðr̩ njats/
[lɔː ˈçje ɪn nɪˈtɔn a ˌta.pɪsˈmɛnt e ˈpjɛ.ðɐ njats]
then there.be-ipf indf fad to tapestry and stone naked
Then there was a fad for hangings and stonework.

---

Marking Rubric

excerpt in translation from the censor's guide for the Dijon New School 2019 Concurrence History scitation paper Family, Tradition and Language: the Changing Culture of the Good Game Decades.

Entrou 1: Comoscon poðe Brittan sy stat de prestanç cultural sur Mendeva Brittanesc vardir durant l'eç annað final ny siecr novoç cant meðes l'oç un sovra Brittan cas pouvlanç e laboriostur, e diçr alcot sta l'oc famostað por ig y moraltað dy Renovellaçon Famigler fosn enajað vars y Novomont?
Question 1: How did Britain retain its position of cultural prestige over British Mendeva during the final years of the nineteenth century even as the latter overtook Britain in population and industry, and to what extent were the ethics of the Household Renovation exported to the Novomund via this cachet?

- cas y primer, carað svoccanç de tramigraçon monfeyað dy vige novel tras l'Atlantic e de frequenç de mariðaç combinant entrig.
- for the first, look for talk of increased transmigration of the new rich across the Atlantic and rates of intermarriage thereamongst.

- ancour, præmieð soumoin vars y scanjon dy spaiðoir Vetomondin a masquira e vars y façon yon i destarrisceu y costumn autochthon de kiveury (cos particuler carað referiscenç ag chronic de Hasiny par Coswteg).
- further, reward mention of the boom of the Vetomundine masquira genre and how it displaced the autochthonous herdtale tradition (specifically look for reference to Coswteg's Hasiny diaries).

- cas y dovem, jayað soumoin for vars respos caglou irrayant sur y disputaçon irresoluð cas y defas d'adopçon Laic ne Mendeva Bugter; stou discorrir cas dou scrittour ag mendrem.
- for the second, only give credit to responses highlighting the ongoing debate as to the timeline of Laic adoption in Gulf Mendeva; at least two disagreeing authors must be mentioned.