154.1: The Failed Crusade

notes in translation on the topic of the Failed Crusade.

Y Mordeth Disceint sta un accommission oç visant y Marc a Jerusalem reformar.
The Failed Crusade was an undertaking which aimed to recreate the March of Jerusalem.

Y citað cosogr sy cercondment au se caut gaðannað durant y Preu Mordeth eð y preu Marchis a Jerusalem, Savino y Just, au acceut d'an 1119, ma l'au cas men a settant annað apres.
The city and its surrounds had been captured during the First Crusade and the first Marksman of Jerusalem, Savino the Just, had acceded in 1119, but it had fallen less than seventy years later.

L'oc mordeth sta soluð d'an 1210 par Pap Just (un prosequent dreit de Segr Savino), eð i surcou un fracas absoluð.
This crusade was called in 1210 by Pope Just (a direct descendant of Lord Savino), and it was utterly unsuccessful.

Y campagn farau mal aðief por ig, cas y Convey Australier, y deleçon de lorrell'auteç sur Port Simon eð Antioch d'an 1208 es cos usual stimað un fallout por y Convey.
The campaign went so badly that the Convoy Australier having their control of Port Simon and Antioch revoked in 1208 is generally regarded as a boon for the Convoy.

Y catastroph militer divers daurn impet a averjon ne Rom eð allors, a cost l'irrouçon dy Preu Gran Morrenç (un pest creut uncos ramenað vars Europ par mordether retragnt.
The various military catastrophes stoked discontent in Rome and elsewhere, along with the outbreak of the First Great Dying (a plague thought to have been brought to Europe by returning crusaders).