156.1: A Parody of Literature

    excerpt in translation from the 1990 short story The Littlest Things We Know to be Small (originally in Vascon as Los Mens que Sems come Pochins) by Anna Rocamora. It parodied the overelaborate, overspecific style that had become popular in the regional highbrow literary scene in recent years and almost singlehandedly changed publishing trends overnight.

Mell'inquillin e mey entrquïsceurn a plaç meg dy torn ag droccon por aug libar e gostaçon pascr des y plat a lox.
My roommate and I paused mid-lap on the driveway to sip water and nibble from the tray of pizza slices.

Caye l'yeul un marrenquon harif eð affrous de ciscr, hurlanç e slenget occajonal entr groun abrevað.
The street was a weird, scary nightmare of squeals, shrieks and occasional snogs between tipsy teens.

Un camil vabian closnautr passau clacquant. Un connart magrastr quidam craccau un mot all'orlaç groinant, senglottaç e glouç indugnt de sbayour.
A battered jeep rattled by. Some scrawny bastard spat a wad onto the kerb with a grunt, prompting whines and giggles from bystanders.

Pieç pas ados, un frot flasq a cedar sonau cant lamp a xanthal cardaurn y teneur.
A few footsteps behind, a pathetic guitar strum sounded as neon lights teased the darkness.

Jo senteu un stig leger ag ventr. "Or bon, tenau a traiscnar," murmurau mell'amig cos ouveg, cur tornant deur y stril gapiscent de fren.
I felt a slight pang in my gut. "Alright, let’s shuffle on," my friend mumbled with a pout, ignoring the intermittent squeals of brakes.

N'oc hour surrun, jo vole eir por y salonnour nell'avoccoir destarrir e por l'entrou pondr dell'oç diabr de rumour cas cahut.
Sometime soon, I’d go to relieve the receptionist at the rec centre and inquire about that damned dorm rumour.