158.1: Medieval Provence

notes in translation on the territory of Provence in the medieval period.

Provenç Mitað-Asc sta un vassal sou massem possenç divers tras un millenner pres.
Medieval Provence was a vassal of various greater powers for almost a millennium.

I denoy incorporað nell'Empir Françan durant sy spanjon ny siecr seg eð i parmaneu com un sodal de sy ronç ovester posc ig l'empir dehisceu a dou part ny siecr nouf.
It was incorporated into the expanding Francian Empire in the sixth century and remained part of its western fragment after the empire was divided in two in the ninth.

Pre y siecr onç primal y region er denuð autonom majortaðer, ma l'er concas alcheðr oc surcaint y kynous final por y Preu Empir Drengoçan intermanir.
By the early eleventh century it had become mostly autonomous, but it was conquered once more as the last piece of the First Drengot Empire.

Posc l'Urgenç a Dijon d'an 1170, y Reyaum a Borgogn fey exeunt des auteç Drengoçan, y comtað a Provenç apportant galað.
After the 1170 Emergency at Dijon, the Kingdom of Burgundy left Drengot control, taking the country of Provence with it.

Provenç er extollið an ducað ny siecr treç oc gournað par y linaç de Savoy, e ne sona dy conjogntur direct entr y citað caver a Genef e l'entertað dy commarç maritim ny Miterran, i receveu y dob 'y paner Borgond'. 
Provence was elevated to a duchy in the thirteenth century under the house of Savoy, and as the direct link between the capital at Geneva and all of Middlesea sea-trade, it became known as the 'Burgund breadbasket'.