164.1: The Zenda Manuscript

excerpt in translation from the beginning of [real-life] book The Henchmen of Zenda by KJ Charles, a 2018 pastiche of the 1894 romp The Prisoner of Zenda.

"Candon jo ley un stoir, jo sepon l'eç exposson; or pront la jo me met a l'un autorar, j'yem scið ig jo dey un exposson aïr."
"When I read a story, I skip the explanations; yet the moment I begin to write one, I find that I must have an explanation."

Cossy da Rudolf Rassendyll capel commet a sy cont aventoresq de masquira, amour, traiçon, occijon de sanc freit, e segr de sanc ðus.
This is Rudolf Rassendyll’s introduction to his swashbuckling tale of intrigue, love, treachery, cold-blooded murder, and hot-blooded men.

Sy tesmogn, parsemnað coram, es denuð y vertað creut cos general entrell'eç rar cançous por le leir. 
His account, privately circulated, has become the accepted truth amongst the few privileged to read it.

Cay un stoir d'audaç sou teneur covart, honour malgrað amour, nobiltað sur tout.
It is a story of courage in the dark, honour in the teeth of love, nobility above all.

I nos fornisc de princes bel eð apassionnað, d'un segr oç amour e coroun deneyant pro gra d'un caus diçerrem e puressem, e d'un malvaç—untal malvaç.
It gives us a beautiful, passionate princess, a man who renounces love and crown for the sake of a greater and purer cause, and a villain—such a villain.

Rupert de Hentzau: temerer e coðelous, graçous e desgraçous, fouceur, bland, vil, eð invencuð.
Rupert of Hentzau: reckless and wary, graceful and graceless, handsome, debonair, vile, and unconquered.

Rupert fug y fougl ag stoir de Rassendyll com monstr contrdontað, nolent jamay plu reapparir; Rassendyll se destourm deur y campagn a honour aure; eð y vray Rey a Ruritania regn a Strelsau.
Rupert flees the pages of Rassendyll’s story a thwarted monster, never to be seen again; Rassendyll retires from the field with honour unstained; and the true King of Ruritania reigns in Strelsau.

Alcot connardaç.
What a pile of shit.