168.5: And Good And Gay

excerpt from the 1986 work Birds Yet Sing, a popular account by Ivainchuque fi Cap (originally published in Vascon as Ja Cantan Aucèis) of the history of the Household Renovation in the late nineteenth century. This was a precipitous societal shift in attitudes to marriage, family and the role of children, as to the ultimate causes of which there has been much speculation.

…origin of the word "tov" [gay] itself may seem to be evident. The term is attested from the 1810s in the underground tovaric communities of the Riverine Cities [1], and is notable for being (unlike so many similar words) a self-descriptor used to signal ingroup membership, instead of an insult hurled by offended outsiders or the avenging law (whatever it may be avenging). This initial covertness can be seen in the somewhat confused definition given in Manjurich's 1823 work The Vernacular of Boxa [Novi Sad, Serbia] as "a loving salutation between brothers…avoided in polite company".

The existence of the synonymous "tovaric" certainly suggests that "tov" is simply a clipping of e.g. Zahid Russian това́риш • továrish "friend, companion" or one of its cognates, and indeed this connection appears to have been consciously reinforced through the nineteenth century. By the time of the Household Renovation, academic works had further adapted the root, borrowing words like "tovarism" [homosexuality] into dozens of languages.

A closer look into the religious and social dynamics of the Riverine Cities, however, reveals tantalising alternative etymologies. The Riverine Cities were also a hotbed of the Deviance movement due to the presence of significant religious minorities and the entwining of the Church with (resented) local and baronial authority. In particular, there was a significant connection between tovaric circles and the Jewish quarters of cities like Pojon [Bratislava]. Use of the phrase קערל טוב • karl tov "good chap" (the noun coming from German) between Jewish men is attested in correspondence from the mid-eighteenth century.

Another more prosaic idea is that the word "tov" is a clipping in the other direction, a rebracketed form of the patronymic suffix -ov from surnames like Kotov or Soldatov, but…

---

[1] an alliance-federacy of small independent states along the Danube River and its tributaries linked by treaty and trade in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.