174.1: Modern Provence

notes in translation on the later history of Provence.

L'eç dezein apres stan l'asc cant y Provenç sovran hurstau y sona d'un republic marcander excellent.
The following decades saw independent Provence take its place as a preeminent mercantile republic.

Ag fin dy siecr seç lorry sar marcer aye se spanuð tras l'ocean Atlantic vars treborth ne Mendeva com Santrafeu nou stablið.
By the end of the sixteenth century their trade network reached across the Atlantic to port towns in Mendeva [North America] like the newly-established Santrafew.

L'ec toun volen alcant aposc se combinar all'eiðel de Nou Provenç.
These towns would eventually coalesce into the territory of New Provence.

Ag fin dy siecr novoç, y possenç broucað de Nou Provenç au ombr jait sull'oç de sy progentour Vetomondin.
By the end of the nineteenth century, the power of New Provence had eclipsed that of its Vetomundine progenitor.

A mesur dy pestriçon norðeressem dy Collujon Drengoçan, Provenç dene cas monfeyað un fragossau European de Nou Provenç, com envarjon de lorry magntumn a cascun ec siecr paravant.
As the Drengot Collusion formed to the north, Provence became in many respects a European outpost of New Provence, in a reversal of their respective statures centuries earlier.

Y region luïsce cosogr Vascony y sona de bastegl contr paramontað Drengoçan fin ag Tourf d'an 1961 eð y sfondranç dy Collujon Drengoçan.
The region stood with Vascony as a bulwark against Drengot hegemony until the Furore of 1961 and the collapse of the Drengot Collusion.