175.1: An Evening at the Pub

excerpt in translation from 1967 trevold Un Aœd des Uisq ("A Bard out of Owisk", fourth book in the Xiphary "Sellswords" series), written by a Borlish writing duo who collectively went by the name Pincerno (possibly based on Latin pincerna "cupbearer").

Got a ploy coutoccaurn com deit sull'ardois dy veil tarn, e fornisceurn l'eðegl par y foyer calt d'un heu douç e quemant.
Rain pattered like fingers on the slates of the old inn, giving the nook around the warm hearth a lovely and cosy air.

Randa yauvnau y brant cos perfonctoir con y roðabr e turnau cur vars y barou de kes, de pan e de skillot ne sy greim.
Randa gave the fire a cursory pat with the poker and turned her attention to the tray of cheese, bread and chips on her lap.

Un dy scuir—pie nuaç, ogl boundessem ag panç—attenoy a un crost cahottar cant i ruða apar, ma i dau kevr a sy man par un scoblot doit.
One of the boys—barefoot, eyes too big for his gut—tried to snatch a crust as he shuffled past, but she smacked his hand with a practiced flick.

"Va pascr sad," mormonnau i, e luy commoveu y barou avars.
"Tuck in properly," she mumbled, nudging the tray his way.

I lançau sourey, sautau a asseïr sur y banc çaveyað ne feutr, e bechettau lon graç.
He grinned, leapt into a seat on the felt-topped bench, and dug in gracelessly.

Dereðr dy roum, tarnaç movant porseveu un querellaç—uncos lasdr a them d'un feurðon de tar.
Across the room, pouting drunkards carried on a spat—something pathetic about an acre of land.