177.1: Laic Declarations

notes in translation on the Laic Declarations.

Y Declar Laic intermanen un series de document traitancer prodoit par un consegl tras tarmn de delegaçon des doçan plusour de polity ne Belgrad d'an 1850.
The Laic Declarations were a series of diplomatic documents produced by an international committee of delegations from several dozen polities in Belgrade in 1850.

L'ec document forgaurn un ossatur de lodrignað por religion statuer desjovar deur y foncçon administraçonnal de polity, e por y stat cas ley de gent a fieltað mendrancer.
These documents outlined procedures for uncoupling established religions from administrative state functions, and the legal status of people with minority faiths.

All'oc epoc, Belgrad sta sodal ny Citað Floyan, un alleyanç-federaç de picq polity autonom lonc y Floy Danau e sy confluyenç.
At this time, Belgrade was one of the Riverine Cities, an alliance-federacy of small independent states along the Danaw River and its tributaries.

L'ec citað ern leyað des y cendr dy Reyaum Danavan, oc stant sfondrað de façon spectacler posc y Var Theudesc Dovem ny dezein 1820.
These cities had risen from the ashes of the Kingdom of the Danaw, which had collapsed in spectacular fashion after the Second German War of the 1820s.

Cossy scient, Belgrad sta un amaçgat ðescant primal por doctrin novel cas religion e ley, ant un çaucr Promethean parnommað alligað ag commouð Desveyant eð un communtað tovaresc meg ovart.
As such, Belgrade was an early hotbed of new religious and legal thinking, with a renowned Promethean club associated with the Deviance movement and a semi-public tovarick [queer] community.