178.1: The Romantic Wars

notes in translation on the Romantic Wars.

Y Rix Romannesc intermanen un cougl circonscreut cos flois de var, de smout e d'autr conflict tras Europ ec ayent loy fis a mesur atorn dy mojol dy siecr settoç.
The Romantic Wars were a loosely-circumscribed collection of wars, uprisings and other conflicts across Europe which took place through the middle of the seventeenth century.

Com un entertað il son cossirað parveg com y derran conflict vecinabr veram, dec ny siecr sevent tal rix de magntumn comportant volen y Novomont envouvr, e tan volen alleyanç abrangir entr y possenç n'Europ, Africa eð Asia cos parey.
As a whole they are sometimes considered the last truly localised conflicts, since by the next century wars of similar scales would begin to involve the Novomund, and would feature alliances between the powers of Europe, Africa and Asia alike.

L'ec an des 1640 vars 1670 afferjarn l'eç conflict 'central' dy Rix Romannesc, con tan certan abatment peripherallessem fonn paravent ben apres.
The years 1640 to 1670 cover the 'central' conflicts of the Romantic Wars, although some more peripheral fights may spill earlier or later.

L'envou d'Istr Boral cas y Rix Romannesc no sta limitað for an envajon imparyent den (ersteigon faint ag Capitulaçon a Haukirç d'an 1623), jos concort commotual con polity collindant sur auxigl militer por lorry concarnç.
Borland's involvement in the Romantic Wars was restricted to a failed invasion (culminating in the Hawkirch Surrender of 1623), along with unstable arrangements with neighbouring polities regarding military aid in their conquests.