184.1: North America in the 19th Century

notes on British Mendeva [a region of NA which formed much fo the northern edge of the Gulf of Mexico].

Mendeva Brittanesc sovra Brittan cas pouvlanç e laboriostur durant l'eç annað final ny siecr novoç.
British Mendeva overtook Britain in population and industry in the latter years of the nineteenth century.

Nentamen, jusc hour entarn Brittan poðe un eðegl de vry cultural vardir.
Nonetheless, for some time Britain retained a position of cultural cachet.

Soumis es paravant ig l'oc dau impet all'adopçon hastous ne Mendeva Brittanesc dy moraltað dy Renovellaçon Famigler (ne comparaçon contr Nou Provenç e Mascic magn mejoncherrem, com bustr) nell'oc epoc.
It has been suggested this contributed to British Mendeva's rapid adoption of the ethics of the Household Renovation (as compared to much more ambivalent New Provence and Mashick, for instance) during this time.

Impar nell'eç siecr ançan, ny siecr novoç sceye tramigraçon remarcabr dy select entr Mendeva Brittanesc e Brittan, tan com mariðaç entrig magn monfeyað.
Unlike earlier centuries, the nineteenth century saw significant transmigration of the élites between British Mendeva and Britain, as well as much more intermarriage.

Cos parçal se poð l'oc ascreir a nuvr alcot sta un select autochthon sceint ovest dell'Atlantic, ma majortaðer l'oc se mantien for deut a vascel raudessem e donc aðendr magn abrejað.
In part this can be attributed to the newness of an autochthonous élite west of the Atlantic, but mostly this is simply due to faster ships and greatly-reduced travel times.