187.1: Stopping Scurvy

notes in translation on efforts to prevent scurvy.

Jusc y siecr cinqueç nuverrem e seç primal, cosogr y veyaç geoscopic magn stendiscendessem ne souc dell'Abanc Novomondin d'an 1471, gimmolt por scurvog coïr denoirn quichessem.
By the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries, with the much longer geoscopic voyages following the Novomundine Landfall of 1471, efforts to prevent scurvy became more active.

Com bustr, Rey Ambrosc III a Vascony ("l'Ascenent") corporalleyau y Decret Sandrin d'an 1485 yon ag vascel voloisn stovir fruit issugt e scarob bacagettar.
For example, King Ambrose III of Vascony (the "Ascendant") instituted the Sandrine Design in 1485 by which ships would be required to stock dried fruits and syrups.

Nentamen, tal teisment n'aurn rebondisc durabr.
However, such schemes did not have lasting effects.

Cos parçal l'oc se deye a careç ma magn moulosessem, ag defait de comprenjon cas y method comoscon fruit poðen scurvog coïr.
This was partly due to expense but much more significantly, due to the lack of understanding of the mechanism by which fruit prevented scurvy.

Cossy, fruit stan conservað par mejan lorry matier sandrinal eliminant (ig inclus, par lou boglir ben par tas ne cuivr benoçar) e moðnaut nanciscen scurvog toð cas, oc colluy menant vars y sdroyaçon de fruit lingr total.
Thus, fruit would be preserved in ways which removed their sandrine content (for example, boiling or use of copper vessels) and sailors would suffer scurvy anyway, leading guilds to abandon stocking fruits altogether.