189.1: Disappearance of the Redstone Chair

notes in translation on the subject of the Redstone Chair, containing the (alleged) block upon which the Elved Marriage between a princess of Markland and the ruler of Dane Northumber was solemnised.

Certan historicour aun l'apponment scas ig Preu Ðurnç a Londr d'an 1290 fos cos parçal motivað par un vellisqment vars y Caðer emposseïr; accont son discrepant cas y facçon envoluð.
Some historians have conjectured that the First Burning of London in 1290 was in part motivated by a plan to acquire the Chair; the responsible party varies in the telling.

Lonc y tesmogn costumner, l'intermane un kerel sur y plaçment dy Caðer ne Pieðr Roug ayent y Rix cas Fieltað akirtað, ec durant pres un cinquantein d'annað tras y torn ag siecr seç eð ec ayent pres toð y polity sur Albion jannestað.
According to the traditional account, it was a dispute over the location of the Redstone Chair which sparked the Wars of Fealty, which lasted almost fifty years over the turn of the sixteenth century and which embroiled almost all the polities of Albion.

Cos infeliç, y Caðer denoy repars a milloy dy tourf cosogr y rix a plaç entarn entr d'an 1505 e 1509.
Unfortunately, the Chair was lost in the tumult of the wars at some point between 1505 and 1509.

Noc obstroint javig monfeyað e dou sovembr ag mendrem, y Caðer n'a jamay erref se caut, eð y recordaçon modern de sy pariscenç se plaç cos enter sur depegnt ne pieç portrait e belem de coronnaç.
Despite several searches and at least two hoaxes, the Chair has never been recovered, and the modern understanding of its appearance rests entirely on depictions in a few portraits and coronation scenes.