194.1: Biography of a Mercenary

continued translation from the beginning of [real-life] book The Henchmen of Zenda by KJ Charles, a 2018 pastiche of the 1894 romp The Prisoner of Zenda.

Me reman un lonc veyaç par convey a souvar, un veðr a brandvin sou man, eð un facsimile inscaut cos effus e hortumnesc dy descovan de Rassendyll a cost mey.
There is a long railway journey ahead of me, a glass of brandy to my hand, and a heavily and obscenely annotated copy of the Rassendyll manuscript by my side.

Jo preten a lou cascun benoçar por y vertað digr.
I intend to use them all to tell the truth. 

Jo dign Jasper Detchard. J'er nað com ceyon d'un famigl vige ny bandlau de—o bon Deu, me stou vray?
My name is Jasper Detchard. I was born to a well-off family in the outskirts of—oh dear God, must I?

Nell'ec cont costumner es y histoir linacer dy racontour recitar ant detagl minuçous lonc tre generaçon, ma jo's enter scur ig my leyour es, ða possibr, infruniscendessem meðes par my granmaðr agnat a sey jo.
It is customary in these accounts to rehearse one’s family history in vast detail over three generations, but I am quite sure my reader is, if possible, even less interested in my paternal grandmother than I am.

Ag diabr con. My nom no's Japser Detchard. Quippe l'oc no's i.
To hell with it. My name is not Jasper Detchard. Obviously it is not.

Jo digna un autr nom autr annað, ma jo le teurfeya ny leiçoir par delit divers, ec ersteigon faint par un temertað gra aðief por ig my parent refusaurn l'occajon me parmettr de tan me cavir ablegað d'universtað, e me deleurn par meyan dy Centuir e d'un offiçment ne Hind.
I had another name once, but I stained it at school with various crimes, culminating in a sufficiently serious indiscretion that my parents declined to give me the opportunity of being thrown out of a university too, and disposed of me via the Army and a posting to India.