20.1: Disinfectant

excerpt in translation from 1994 work Albic Medicine in the Workshop Decades, Part V: Alchemic Detaxion, written by Dr Harold Westcamp with additions by his collaborator Marcathow Cox.

Vin eð autr beçon yeustað stan reconnuð com matier possent contamen coïr des y Mitað-Asc, e lembic cadarað denent cavibr generallessem ny siecr seç parmette a Arnoutszen de le rannuðar durant sy gran homily sur curaçon.
Wine and other fermented drinks had been noted as a preventative of infection since the medieval period, and the wider availability of distilled lembick in the sixteenth century allowed Arnoutszen to recommend it in his great treatise.

Y ci avanç dy Paç Lonc menau ag descovart de solution ja effectuallessem.
The advances of the Long Peace led to the discovery of yet more effective solutions. 

Y molin por salpeðr (costroit por lou fornir con poið dy kynous a pouvr neir cant il mancaurn depost tesqual) ne Zampanagar e Tacday Ancor pres se sarvoirn de vreic marin com matier cru.
The saltpetre mills (built to provide a source of the gunpowder component in the absence of natural deposits) of Zampanagar and neighbouring Tacday Ancore made use of sea wrack as a raw ingredient.

Ne 1778, lonc y narrað dy surveilour por y ci molin a Contare, un vapour onðiçastr er remarcað montant des cuf rejeitancer y despart con vitriol seyon maneyað afont.
In 1778, according to the reports of the overseer at the Contare mills, a purplish vapour was seen rising from disposal vats in which the waste was treated with vitriol.