202.1: Lexember 2025 - 29: dos "set"

dos /dɔz/ [dɔz]
- dose, a prescribed amount of a medicine; 
- portion, amount, quantity, measure, any quota of a substance administered for some purpose;
- exercise, drill, an activity done as practice or training;
- set, a fixed number of repetitions of a particular exercise performed as a unit

Etymology: originally in the first sense, a semi-learned borrowing from Late Latin dosis "dose", itself from Greek δόσις • dósis "gift, portion; dose". The word's extension to other measured quantities is seen in the Middle Borlish period. The latter senses originate in the military slang of the late nineteeth century, spreading into civilian use amid body-building fads during the twentieth.

Jo save noc ou poðir un dos may de gouth complir.
/ʒo saˈve nɔk u poˈðir ɪn dɔz me de guθ kɔmˈplɪr/
[ʝo sɐˈve nɔg u pʊˈðɪː‿ʀɪn dɔz me de guθ kʊmˈplɪː]
1s know-ipf ng whether can-inf indf set more of pushup achieve-inf
I didn't know if I could do another set of pushups.

===

Andalus

Notes in translation on the early history of the polity of Andalus.

Andalus es un polity ag souð dy peninsol Spagnart. Y lengaç d'Arabic Morrou e de Spagnart Mostaral se paroln y dou cos lað ny region.
Andalus is a polity in the south of the Spanish peninsula. The languages of Morrove Arabic and Mostara Spanish are both widely spoken in the region.

N'Andalus dy siecr nouf sceye y floriscment de fanglanç theoretic. Cos particuler, machinaçon por veðry produgr acceleran cos veloç dec l'yeul den des l'aust s'istra, oc menant all'enascment lavaç de "veðr zajadau" noncupað.
Ninth-century Andalus saw the flowering of theoretic advancements. In particular, glassmaking techniques accelerated rapidly due to a cut-off of supply from the east, leading to the prodigious export of so-called "jackdaw glass".

L'orn religious dy Brethin respane ny zon de pouvlanç chrestan majortaðer n'Andalus des y norð durant y siecr onç e doç.
The Brethin religious order spread into the Christian-majority areas of Andalus from the north during the eleventh and twelfth centuries.

Nell'oc epoc atorn Andalus parde un sunt signfeyant d'eiðel ag norð e l'aust ne man de polity chrestan, tal com y Reyaum de Barcelon nou stablið.
Around this time Andalus lost significant territory in the north and east to Christian polities, such as the newly-established Kingdom of Barcelon.