205.1: Detchard in the Demimonde

continued translation from the beginning of [real-life] book The Henchmen of Zenda by KJ Charles, a 2018 pastiche of the 1894 romp The Prisoner of Zenda.

Alor sceye jo la, desracinað, sgarant, rebateyað n'un við novel lon famigl ben histoir.
So there I was, rootless, wandering, rebaptised into a new life without family or history.

Jo fey regres des Hind vars l'ovest par my blad, faur, e spað, ma jo skighau alcun feu Larresc ðocar.
I worked my way back from India using my cards, wits, and blade, but did not trouble England’s shores.

Y tarmagn d'Europ es un jagat accoglendessem por y semblant de mey: aventurer, nomad, gentilhom volour e gentilhom stoccour, domn dy jorn e dy noit, hasardour e vlangr e dragoman de rumour, aristocrat rent abascað, routuron ne cognit s'enhautiscent cos precartaðer.
The Continent is a more welcoming place for my sort of people: adventurers, wanderers, gentleman thieves and gentleman thugs, ladies of the day and night, gamblers and fences and information brokers, aristocrats brought low, masquerading commoners reaching dangerously high.

Nos sodal dell'oç tribu cougln e soun við e lengaç e païs, com un confraðreç teun d'outrley ant un glonscel de fieltað e d'enmigtað ancour teunessem, e se poð un parson parey encontrar a mesur d'annað n'un madrugour a Berlin, un palaç a Praug, eð un gajon a Rom.
We of that tribe drift in and out of lives and languages and countries, a loose fraternity of rogues with a looser tangle of loyalties and rivalries, and one may see the same face over the course of years in a Berlin nightspot, a Prague palace, and a Roman gaol.

Par mejan de bustr solter: j'er ne Vien cant primer j'encontrau un domn Fransc magn bonet eld settoç svingað com aðm par un trocour mentaç eld tre vey maissem.
To give a single example: I was in Vienna when I first met a very pretty Frenchwoman of seventeen flaunted as mistress by a dishonest stockbroker three times her age.

Jo l'encountrau aval prose cant jo cof laur com batman an bosty reloð e condonant a strem a Dresden yon la luïsce sona d'ouger sull'eudæmony.
I next encountered her when I was hired as bravo at an extremely elegant and accommodating brothel in Dresden where she presided over the festivities.

La me reconnoy incommorant—oc bogr ðesmal, dec j'aye sy preu patron occeut avant luy—ma la retenoy min douç cos absoluð a them de toll'affer, my time destarriscent n'affirmant ig l'aye lo stimað ennoyant com aye l'eç ayent hur me dað oc por.
She recognised me at once—unsurprisingly, as I had killed her first protector in front of her—but she was utterly charming about the whole business, assuring me that she had found him as tiresome as the people who had hired me to do it.