207.1: Blue Trans-Willem War

notes in translation on the Blue Trans-Willem War

Y Var Tras-Willem Blau sta l'un entr un ranc de var nell'epoc modern primal ec polity Fransc e Teudesc envouvent cos principal (oc a digr, l'eç polity l'eiðel de Willemy parlocant) eð ec stan a gest accommis a fin auteç broucar sull'oç eiðel.
The Blue Trans-Willem War was one of a series of wars in the early modern period which principally involved French and Dutch [German] polities (that is, those powers located on either side of the territory of Willemy [~Benelux, Lorraine]) and which were de facto waged over control of said territory.

Noc obstroint ig defagl sey l'akirtanç sporadic de combat porçonnar com var n'eç cahut lon un poy d'arveiðrostað, scaunç historic ne nostrell'epoc benoçn y periodeyaçon par colour lonc y scrittour dy siecr novoç Andrysk de Santer.
Though the sporadic flare-ups of hostilies are difficult to divide into discrete wars without some arbitrariness, modern historiography usually works with the chromatic periodisation of nineteenth-century writer Andrysk de Santer.

Sy model, concreut ou (lonc y tesmogn) des y colour sur y gonfan dell'eç victour ben des l'ongit de symbol alchemic, attriboy y var Blau com y rix pænultem, oc cessant ny siecr settoç nuverrem.
Her system, based either (depending on the account) on the colours of the victors' standards or on alchemical symbolism, has the Blue war as the penultimate conflict, ending in the late seventeenth century.

Certan historicour, ma noc de Santer, aun ag var Blau y spaiðoir ascreut d'un kynous entr y coglenç abrangendessem de Rix Romannesc ny siecr settoç mejan.
Some historians, though not de Santer, have classified the Blue war as part of the broader collection of Romantic Wars of the mid-seventeenth century.