24.1: Classical Borland

extract in translation from late classical historian Robiaut Scarvon's 1952 textbook The Boral Province in the century after Hadrian (Y Provinç Boral par Siecr posc Hadrian).

Lonc y façon la ageurn y Roman allors tras l'empir, y ci traitment sagntað e ci divintað ja existant all'Istr Boral tradugsern il ny caglou e reforgaurn il ny jout dy pantheon romannesc.
Much as the Romans did across the rest of the empire, the pre-existing sacred practices and divinities on Borland were interpreted through the lens of and recast in the mould of the Roman pantheon.

L'oc poðe font aïr des comport magn naðusc doujugher—com bustr, y veðerrem veneraçon por Nahalennia lonc y rimmot souðer eð auster all'istr, luy stant un deves de commarç e dell'ocean, denoy incorporað de raçon inconnuð con y cult por Pluton e luy deves runið vars sy femn Proserpina.
This could be based on really quite tenuous analogies—for example, the old worship of Nahalennia along the southern and western coasts of the island, who was a goddess of trade and the ocean, was absorbed for unclear reasons into the cult of Pluto and she was syncretised with his wife Proserpina.

Ci autr deitað stan vecinaðessem ben jogndessem indesbroiðabr sur particulertað geographic, e cossy sceint stan compliscabr lon dolour com part all'œcumen religious de Rom.
Other deities were more localised or connected inextricably to particular geographical features, and as such could be incorporated painlessly into the Roman religious landscape. 

Just exact com Tamesis ne Britannia e Sequana ne Gal, y floy noscon oy nommað Reim er alcant parsonfiað com y deu Reagimos.
Just as there was Tamesis in Britannia and Sequana in Gaul, the river now called Reim was once personified as the god Reagimos.