3.1: Agricultural Innovations

    excerpt taken from Tarrouçon Saðer dy Theorist Heredical Romagn e Napollesc ny Doutr-Alp (Agricultural Innovations of the Lombard and Napolitan Heredical Theorists in the Utter Alpine), written in 1865 by farm alchemist Thaubrett of Crowmarsh, affiliated with the Institute for Supply in Axbane.

Ma y majortað (catr part ne cinq, accordant lonc y narrað annual recentessem des l'Edifiç meðes) a zucar consunt n'Istr Boral es recoglt cos vecintaðer.
But the majority (four parts in five, in accordance with the latest annual reports from the Institute itself) of sugar consumed on Borland is produced in the vicinity. 

Toll'eç preu bustr tesmogn de gent scarob betraver nastiscent son ag siecr seç; a veir particuler y scaunç in experientia de theorist willemesc Tewis Camigner, y natur douç e colour 'bilrod' seyon svoccað afont.
The first attestations of betraver syrup being produced are all in the sixteenth century; see for example the in experientia writings of Willem theorist Tewis Camigner, wherein the sweetness and 'billrod hue' of beet syrup are noted.

Scey pog evidenç de recoglenç commarcer d'ig noscon nommabr 'betraver tesqual' ne Willem durant y Rix Romannesc e l'interrouçon cohernt ny sar marcer.
There is little evidence of commercial production of what we might call 'natural betraver' in Willem during the Romantic Wars and the concomitant disruption to the trade mesh. 

Qualtað piour a doit ayent cloistau alcun ort a peðenç real vars l'oc matier. Par surcresc, stemn usual a betraf cavibr prell'accensment de Pentros ne dezein 1730 contene parcanç zucar lonc for un part n'ogtant, fort picquessem a doit.
Its inferiority as compared to cane hindered the growth of any real demand for the substance. Moreover, usual varieties of beet before the Pentrose survey of the 1730s would contain perhaps one part in eighty sugar, far lower than cane.