35.1: Going to Brasil

extract in translation from popular history text Going to Brasil [Newfoundland], an account of the first few Vascon voyages to Mendeva [North America] after the Novomundine Landfall of 1471. The book was written in 1971 by Ambrosian author Cristòf Unquenjica as part of the quincentenary commemorations in that polity.

Ig degnant nos posseu lon fregn l'origin vecinar por y nom Mendeva (sur un cart surveunt des y veyaç coll'Abanc meðes es scaut terrae mendevalensis, lonc y parol vask mendeval "vest"),
While we can confidently pinpoint the first usage of the name Mendeva (a surviving map from the Landfall voyage itself is marked terrae mendevalensis, after the Vask mendeval "west"),

y benoç dy nom Brasil poll'austessem parmy ci gran istr ambrosian possey un histoir magn mattougleressem.
the use of the name Brasil for the easternmost of the major Ambrosian isles has much murkier origins.

Certan cos anneyant es y nom adaptau y mythos irðonnesc d'Oil Breasail, un heilant a vest d'Irðon appos star covart d'un vel a nievr jamay for l'un jorn par casc set annað.
It is essentially certain the name was inspired by the Irish myth of Oil Breasail, a landmass west of Ireland that was said to be shrouded in mist except for one day every seven years.

Istr stikettað con Brasil ben parol comportant son vis dagaðy sur cart dy rimmot atlantic ny Mitað-Asc aval, cos usual magn picquessem eð austessem ag loy real.
Islands labelled Brasil or similar wordforms appear sporadically on late-medieval maps of the Atlantic coast, usually much smaller and further east than the real place.