49.1: 5th Lexember

pisar "weigh"

pisar /piˈzar/ [pɪˈzɑː]
- weigh, to determine the weight of;
- weigh out, distribute, apportion, to divde into portions according to some criterion;
- consider, weigh up, assess, to deliberate on the relative importance of differnet factors

Etymology: from Old Boral pisar, pesar "to weigh, consider", the combination of the native descendant of Latin pēnsō "I ponder, purchase" (which also gives Modern Boral pesar "think") along with a secondary verbal derivation from noun pis "weight, measure", from Latin pēnsum "allotment, quota".

Y lan a filar se coun pisað cos inequal.
/i lan a fiˈlar se kun piˈzaθ kɔz ˌi.neˈkwal/
[i ˈlan a fɪˈlɑː se ˈkun pɪˈzah kɔz ˌi.nɪˈkwaw]
def wood to spin-inf rfl get-pst-3p weigh-p.pst adv unfair
The wool to spin was unfairly distributed.

---

excerpt in translation from a 1828 steeplepost letter sent from Pentrose to  by mathematician Darren Brodus.

Vos vouð cas mendrem outr bon me fair par noc desmanneçar a Paris, citað de vareç e carogn, ða meðes tu derra pieç Fransc Ustol parsir por gra de ty fem.
You will at the very least do me the service of not moving to Paris, city of greed and carrion, even if you must learn some Proper French for the sake of your wife. 

Dec Hortense oc lerra cos certan, jo vil ci bon vouð de Clara communeyar e rescaur ig vos porreð pront se sarvir dy lencorf cas Vauhan; for carað Marduth ag Tesoir Tyche.
As Hortense is certainly reading, I shall pass on Clara's well-wishes and reiterate that you are welcome to make use of the Vauhan lencorve; just ask for Marduth at the Tyche Bank.

Y scourm de Pether son tan voluð, parisc i, a partir de bel Albion traiçonous.
Pether's lot are also destined, it seems, to leave fair, perfidious Albion.

Ig degnant jo lour day ascuranç continu de xeny oy il son resoluð sur najar lonc y gran flou mendevan vars un ventur calscon seyon trovabr a Hasiny.
Despite my continuing assurances of welcome here they are determined to sail the great Mendevan river to whatever future they can find in Hasiny.

Jo dey admettr ig y sigt de murðon de lau teir entr mey e casc hom Theudesc es formous naðusc.
I must admit the prospect of being thousands of miles from any Dutchman has its appeal.