5.1: Convoluted Schemes

translation from The Fourth Burning of London, and other Screwups: the Eventful History of Things Going Wrong, a 2014 textbook written by former lovetale writer Galarça fi Molhomé, who studied domain history at the University of Huzatre in Vascony.

Toð ratiocination convoluð com y ci noscon cossirað jusc oy nell'oc capparol arra pres certan doum damnað, for meðes dec—lonc vegl refrain leonesc—un veskit es inkintabr sur un doçan d'aguil.
Any scheme which is as convoluted as the ones we have seen so far in this chapter is almost certainly doomed, if only because—as they say in Leon—one cannot knit a veskit on a dozen needles. 

Conjuraçon criminal partenent, nos porreu a plaç l'astuç dy stel original ne masquira Matthias o Grallon sevir: "Vayað noc vars y Lun por un Jorala accarr". 
In the case of criminal plots, we might instead heed the advice of the original icon of masquira Matthias o Grallon: "Do not go to the moon to acquire a Jorala". 

Casc pas e conjuraçonnour ancour poun un pognt a sfondranç surcair, e nos parceveu nullig alcun illustration parfaitessem dell'oc axiom a ny decadenç dy staddomain awasoucondesc.
Every new step, every added conspirator is a potential collapse point, and nowhere is this principle more perfectly illustrated than the tale of the downfall of the Awasúconda staddomain.

Situað amont (deg meco atorn derim tras y Fastig Camboscung deur y veðerrem treborth nommað Parnaven) sur y banc dy floy Awasou, l'oc region sta un sodal par comparaçon tart a y band d'instançment enajant jogndr lonc y colon de Cappatia auster.
Situated upstream (several miles inland across the Camboshung Ridge from the older seaport town of Parnaven) on the banks of the Awasú, this region was a relatively late member of the band of export-based settlements along the spine of eastern Cappatia.