52.1: 26th Lexember

quottar "fit into"

quottar /kwɔˈtar/ [kwʊˈtɑː]
- fit into, to be small enough in some dimension to be placed in some location;
- (slang) pull off, suit, to love good wearing some article of clothing or (by extension) to succeed well in any particular situation;
- be affordable, to cost little enough that one has enough money to spend on it;
- (mathematics) divide, to be an exact divisor of some number, as 4 is to 28;

Etymology: originally in the third sense, borrowed in the Middle Boral period from Italian quottare "to be accounted for (in a budget); of a transaction, to succeed" presumably via some financial or trade connection. The Italian is a derivative of Latin quot "how much"—compare the synonymous descendant alcot in Boral. Generalisation to the first sense occurs from the seventeenth century (and partially displaces existing entrar "go in"); in mathematics it is seen in 1834; the slang sense seems to date back only to the 1980s.

Fort alcot i quotta y jacquot me souprene.
/fɔrt alˈkɔt i kwɔˈta i ʒaˈkwɔt me ˌsu.preˈne/
[fɔːt ɐˈgɔt i kwʊˈta i ʝɐˈkwɔt me ˌsu.pʀɪˈne]
well how.much 3s suit-ipf def tux 1s.obl surprise-ipf
I was surprised how well the tux suited him.

---

extract and translation from Shallmews and Fithels: the influence of post-Tetrarchic Hymnal Practice on Popular Music, a 1976 textbook by clavierman Morency Rivellerson.

All'hour yonoscon nos eu tesmogn de ci melody manoscart ny music romannesc temporane, nos veim benoç dy kyriel tras Europ occas, norðer jusc Mondovel tan souðer jusc Baglem, donc arð es sell'orin real definir.
By the time we do have evidence of manoscard melody in contemporary popular music, we see use of the scale across western Europe as far north as Mondwell [Anglesey] and as far south as Bagliemmo [Palermo], so it is difficult to determine its true homeland. 

Cay appondr ig y kyriel spanoy des Luberon tras Borgogn e soulor lontanessem par y siecr treç un postulation ant evidenç tan com toð autr, oc a digr alcun entr no's cos particuler suajoir.
The presumption that it radiated from Luberon through Burgundy and outward through the thirteenth century is as well-evidenced as any alternative hypothesis, which is to say not particularly convincingly. 

Certain scholer aun soumis ig l'oc asmuth d'influyenç fos vray ados, eð ig y kyriel se cous introdoit ne Manosq par un joun monc ayent le saut des y hammel a sy figleç.
Some scholars have argued that the direction of influence was in fact the reverse, and the scale was brought to Manosque by a young monk who had it from his childhood village.