57.1: Bad Soap

    excerpt in translation from the 18th of July 1971 of Borlish magazine Niacer, which focuses on domestic topics.

Set recoglt de savon e d'ougl landant son oy eliminað deur y misol a varous posc tesmogn de conement ant orteyanç gra se caut par benoç den.
Seven soap and washing-oil products have been removed from shop shelves after customers have reported severe rashes after use.

L'eç recoglt (troveð enonç total n'affis) son abrangent a bar vençað dy colluy connuð Pax e Candeller.
The products (for a full list see insert) include bars from the well-known cleaningware companies Pax and Chandler.

Narrað svattour suggern y blasmabr sey un lot impur a copros lauric de natron, un matier fameyant addað cos respanent n'ougl e bar a savon.
Early reports suggest that the culprit may be an impure batch of natre's laurick cuprose, a foaming substance widely added to soap oils and bars.

Gimmolt vars l'origin dy contamination furtivir n'aun solution yent, ma y defait de bustr comportant referið des y ligt dy març d'enascment de Libya (dont Istr Boral innasc y majortað dell'eç ivorc alchemic por detaxion) appen vars ig y spin vel y molin poliscent a Haldanvion hamtar.
Efforts to trace the source of the contamination are as yet inconclusive, though the lack of any similar cases reported in the rest of Libya (from where Borland imports the majority of these alchemical products for detaxion)'s export market suggests that the issue may lie with the refining mills at Haldanvion.