61.1: Viking Raids

extract in translation from 1997 academic textbook Del Christianizamento dell'Isole Norroveste (On the Christianisation of the Northwestern Isles), written by historian of Middle-Age religion Dijaca Rofotto.

Portan ða veleu nos l'annað aval de Wolfstan II de Norðumbr comprendr, nos deyeu sgart mettr a dou siecr amont, ag bon preu gazou viking sur y rimmot d'Albion e d'Irðon.
But to understand the final years of Wolfstan II of Northumber, we must look two centuries earlier, to the very first Viking raids on the shores of Albion and Ireland.

Y racont d'eç gazou comportant sur bourg n'Istr Boral—e sur monastir cos particuler—stan quippe denuð notoir ubic prell'hour yon l'eç spanoirn vars y vest e Halgrive fo piglað ne stað de 824.
The tales of similar raids on Borland towns—and on monasteries in particular—would surely have been common knowledge by the time they spread westward and Halgrive was sacked in the summer of 824.

Nentamen, y reyaum anglesc aun s'apprestað a l'eç gazou (e cos final eç irrouçon) souvar par gra inequal jagerrrem.
Nonetheless, the English kingdoms were prepared for these raids (and eventually, invasions) to vastly different degrees.

Compareð y lot de Lincon marchesc con ig de Yorvic norðumbran: y primer cou jamay, e certan denoy y bourg starchið cos impilaðessem ne Marclont tras y dezein plusour candon l'aye veraçter benoç com y tarm de regn dannesc.
Compare the fates of Merch Lincon to Northumbren Yorwick: the former never fell, and in fact became the most heavily-fortified town in Markland for the several decades it served as the de facto border of Danish rule.