64.1: Electromagnetic Radiation

excerpt in translation from 1967 work Handbook of Natural Theory, written by Jason Ridley and others.

Ustol es ig nos dau grad a œculux par sy mesur, dec nos lour eu envou con de tan façon divers.
We customarily grade œculux by their span, since we interact with them in many different ways.

Lumner ant y mesur cortessem es scadriscent, ant nis suffignt por atom toccar e cossy lou fornir de defait a plentað; dighau l'atom dien defaint.
Light with the shortest spans is scattering, having enough energy to affect atoms and give them a deficit of plenty; we say the atom becomes deficient.

Toð œculux breyessem e penetrant y dou son scadriscent, e lonc ustol se poð certan lumner surblavesc jagerrem admettr.
All shortform and penetrating œculux are scattering, and depending on convention some further surblavic light may be included.

Y mesur y longessem a lumner poðent in experientia un fondamen atomic scadrir es tor 400 magr polç, ja  no stant lonc com lumner visibr calscon.
The longest span of light which can in theory scatter an atomic base is around 400 scant-inches, which is not yet as long as any visible light.

Scey hasart ne gran illumination des lumner a mesur tan cort, e feliç es aer avogl y majortað a tal lux nastið par y Sol (pu noc l'entertað, com vil bruslanç tesmognar!). 
High exposure to light of such brief span is dangerous, and fortunately air blocks the majority of such luxes that the Sun emits (although not all, as a sunburn will attest!).