68.1: Early Medieval Borland

excerpt in translation from The Story of Borland, published (originally in Boral as Y Stoir d'Istr Boral) for use in classrooms in 1982 by Cordin Editions.

Cay confluyenç dy ci pouvr germannesc ny souð e nell'ovest con y pouvr romannesc nell'aust e ny norð se produgnt for lent, interim, tras y plusour siecr sevent.
The mixing of the Germanic peoples of the south and west with the Romans of the east and north would proceed only slowly, however, for the next couple of centuries.

Vassalaç ja galað vexa y heilant, e conflict afont menan vars concert entr Boral e Sothbar ben entr Boral eð Anglont com issent dy contingent politic.
The question of fealty vexed the land, with conflicts leading to temporary alliances between Boral and Sothbar or Boral and Angland depending on the political climate.

Tandem, ny siecr novem joun y rey roman Stiglan dau sell'heir Marc ne mariðaç ag dottr soul a Alfey d'Anglont, cossy lorry reyaum unfiant e Sothbar sforçant a vassalaç eunovir posc y Battagl a Fendal n'atorn 810 N.
Eventually, in the early ninth century Roman king Stiglan married his son Marc to the only daughter of Alfegh of Angland, unifying their kingdoms and forcing Southbar to pledge fealty after the circa 810 N Battle of Fendal.

Ma a veg meðes yon y contingent treblað n'Istr Boral er toð cas final sign mostrant vars stabiltað, aðoint er y frequenç eð y forç de gazou dannesc sur y bourg rimmer dell'istr.
But at the same time as the tripartite situation of Borland was finally showing signs of stabilisation, Danish raids on the island's coast towns were increasing in frequency and strength.