69.1: Gingerbread

abridged extract in translation from reference work Folk Customs and Holidays of the North: a Compendium, published in 1876 by Safford University Primers.

Magn comoscon Istr Boral—tan e largeç allors—vel se contentar n'auteç declarar sull'idea de pan vastel aromað douç, y method sengr (ja pos oc no star lon y form a jonnovar faïð par Istr Boral) vien tostessem meðes all'innascment lað de zucar n'Europ.
Much as Borland—and many other places—might like to claim ownership of the concept of sugar-spiced cakebread, the basic recipe (though perhaps not Borland's preferred buttefly shape) predates even the mass import of sugar into Europe.

Gingembrað apparisc ne siecr doç tandic abatment continu ag Masrecq augta gingembr eð autr març vars l'ovest, eç mout zucarrað par miel.
Inchbread [1] arrives in the twelfth century as ongoing warfare in the Masreck [2] brought inchroot [3] and other goods west, often sweetened with honey.

Postulað cos usual es ig jonnovar son y symbol primer de Naðal sur Istr Boral com un parsonfianç de metamorphos e de við alcheðr tandic y mont mort dell'yarn reflorisc vars y prinvir.
It is usually supposed that butterflies are the primary symbol of Christide on Borland as a representation of metamorphosis and new life as the dead world of winter grows again into spring.

Degnant ig l'oc intermain un fabr starc, eð ig a mesur dy siecr a y symbol dy jonnovar se caut adoptað par commouð divers por l'oc bers meðes complir, y tesmogn historic no's idone antal racont sengr.
While this makes for a good story, and while the symbol of the butterfly has over the centuries been adopted by various movements for this very purpose, the historical record is more ambiguous.

---
[1] gingerbread, [2] the Levant, [3] ginger