70.1: Review: The Ascendant

excerpt in translation from a review of the 1934 film The Ascendant appearing in Marsellan newspaper Fiellas Dimenja.

Domaget se sarf dy sgart angost por y lað illuminar par casc taug ny forganç a sy film, e vray veim nos l'eç advantaç n'un tal eðeglment ac dessur.
Domaget uses the narrow view to illuminate the broad in every aspect of his filmmaking, and we really see the benefits of such an approach here.

Ða y belem ern grivlað a se produgr ny palaç e castel a Huzatr e Cartau, defagl all'auditoir vel y comport vistar entr y glonscel cambresc n'Albion ag scon nuçal d'Alexandra a Vascony e sy veyaç famous.
If the scenes were confined to the palaces and castles of Huzatre and Cartaw, it would be hard to connect the Welsh tangles in Albion to the second marriage of Alexandra of Vascony and her famed voyage.

Aglon poum nos y sensation a sculd parental sentir all'abat contr gam sgarant lonc y dou cainç secuð nell'oc caðen filmer.
Instead we can feel the sense of parental obligation warring with wanderlust in both threads of this filmic tapestry.

L'Ascenent vil lon fregn denir siemprtað sull'icon stival, e l'oc merit fort l'ig sign a ðoranç.
The Ascendant will doubtless be a staple of the summer screen, and it well deserves the honour.

Poll'ottem souvanç cavir jo rannuð vos passeð y ralley ne vin empordan beint e n'y plurem cantant a cançon de gloir voscon figurabr.
For the best experience I recommend you spend the afternoon drinking Empordan and singing as many songs of glory as you can think of.