73.1: Review: The Ascendant (cont.)

excerpt in translation from a review of 1934 film The Ascendant by Jacint Brunat, which appeared in Marsellan newspaper Fiellas Dimenja.

Jo nil for vertað—opportun es l'oc edition tan brey posc y solstiç neðan jo pos noc parcanç y ci sodal haubrjorançasterrem ovart concedr ny fabr cortal e historic nuverrem de Dormaget.
I shall be honest—the timing of this release so soon after the solstice perhaps let me better indulge the obviously-propagandist elements of Dormaget's latest historical courtly drama.

L'Ascenenç Vascon tey noc eiðel insuet poll'argent neir, con y Jo so Ambrosc intimessem d'Agochino ayent y parceuçon pouvlancer concreut poll'oc rey vascon durablessem.
The Vascon Ascendancy is no new ground for the screen, with Agochino's more personal I am Ambrose defining the popular perception of Vascony's longest-reigning king.

Nentamen, jo stim L'Ascenent delicat com renarranç por y ci annað commotual posc l'Abanc d'an 1471, maxime graç a sy decijon vars caglou irrayar sur y gent petteyessem ny cort d'Ambrosc.
Nevertheless, I find The Ascendant to be a charming retelling of those turbulent years after the 1471 Landfall, not least in its choice to focus on the more minor personages of Ambrose's court.

Com bustr (ig degnant i parol voug cas vask ny ci pog belem yon il vain deur cambresc), Lyneth Madox hamt Jata, un tissour eð y femn d'un moðnaut nell'Entrpris.
As an example (though her Vask is terrible in the few scenes they stray from Cambrick), Lyneth Madox plays Jata, the seamstress-wife of an Enterprise sailor.