87.1: Deviance Exam

scitation questions in translation from the 2007 course Religion in the Second Millenium: Belief, Community and Division, set by the  University Faculty of Domain History.

(ii) Nell'istr Albion eð y reyaum Danau y dou temporane sceyen mendranç moulous cas religion eð y Cligs (e lorry gendr calscon) stan ligað cos starc accougl con autortað vecin. Desig l'eç qualtað commun ben ceter denoirn il amaçgat ðescant por cogtaçon Contr-Paradis?
(ii) In both Albion and the Danaw kingdom at this time there were significant religious minorities and the Church (of whichever stripe) was strongly associated with local authority. Was it these commonalities that made them fertile ground for Anti-Paradise thought?

(iii) Diçr alcot sta y resmargenç dell'Apprestanç Modest ne Spagn e Gaul com effeit dell'eç novel idea religious? Compareð y farvenç de cuidour modest ig inclus y Marchis de Caillat ben Diana Theodora Queiroz y pro-Marian Azur contr y philosoph de commouð preluïscent cosvour a Modest.
(iii) To what extent was the resurgence of the Modest Arrangement in Spain and Gaul in reaction to these new religious ideas? Compare the fervence of Modest thinkers like the Marquis de Caillat or proto-Blue Marian Diana Theodora Queiroz to the philosophers of earlier Modest-like movements.

(iv) Lonc vossell'opinion, cu scavoy (ben scavoirn) cos incaindessem l'edition incendier d'an 1799 Et Nous Amerons les Fux (E Nos Amareu ci Foy), un ouvr tarromour cas Theology a Desveyanç? Tesmogneð vossell'apponment con poið modern e temporane, e hasmeð dou ben may autr ouçon cas plausibiltað.
(iv) In your opinion, who is, or are, the most likely author(s) of the incendiary 1799 publication Et Nous Amerons les Fux (And We Will Love the Fire), a seminal work in Deviance Theology? Back up your theory with modern and contemporary sources, and contrast the likelihood of at least two other candidates.