89.1: Four Miles to Freedom

excerpt in translation from 2007 work Four Miles to Freedom (originally released in Borlish as Catr Lau a Leurtað), written by Pentrose-based author Matheu Smodarac. Set in the Pentrose of the early twentieth century, it was praised for its depiction of the city recovering from the ravages of the Millstone War.

Lampionment baric n'aye presenç deja caut lonc y picq routel yon trovað ern y cambr pijon d'Ivocq, clignað com annex denover entr un livry a tom rediveu eð y tarn svelt Y Dou Ollem façadant vars Rout Veðr Foris.
Electric streetlight had not yet reached the little alleyway on which Ivock's boarding-house stood, squeezed like an afterthought between a second-hand bookshop and the narrow Two Elms pub which faced Old Foris Street.

I quaucau sortent sull'yeul ovart, y stanc passant dessou dell'ig lumner aurfiað de lamp y cercondment bagnant vars un caldour monochrom.
He hurried out onto the thoroughfare, walking through the pools of that golden lamplight which bathed the surroundings in warm monochrome.

Y peyan ja vat de ploy ern lousc jaint tandic l'eye tras y rout e desveyau theatrfiour arreloðeçað exeunt faint des y Paviglon e colant vars y quarf souterran y proismessem.
The still-wet cobbles glinted as he crossed the road and dodged theatregoers in their best clothes exiting the Pavilion and streaming to the nearest dusker station.

Con tan cous moglastr l'octobr stan preuç contr y saçon, eð Ivocq remorde l'ouçon de sy dorangot gras pres toð pront. 
Despite the damp it was unseasonably warm for October, and Ivock regretted opting for his heavy overcoat almost at once.