92.1: Barruèc

excerpt in translation from 1997 work Barruèc by Ambrosian author Roger Cusallas.

Y castel es gran. L'es tojorn tars dec Yam Mott parsou ig gent veln le targr, e candon Halinne lour beut bonjorn il faun cortiseç e sourey eð exeunt.
The castle is big. It's always clean because Uncle Mott pays people to clean it, and when Halinne says hello to them they bow and smile and move on.

Parveg ða i se ren invisibr i vil lou sevir; i n'a alcun pretension vars spionnaç ben lorry secret jamay descondr, ma scey uncos consolant ny viscr de collocq entr hom crescuð.
Sometimes when she's invisible she follows them; she doesn't mean to spy and would never tell their secrets, but there's something soothing about the murmur of adult conversation.

Ny castel luy scey un quil pille yon i poð ðalleyar dessur com un stelmarin lon meðes un ortegl porrujonnant doutr y tarm.
In the castle she has a soft bed on which she can spread out like a starfish without a toe sticking over the edge.

Tras sy fenestr poð i y havan eð y stivadour ag ci quarf veir, dessou alcot aðief por i pos apen y visaç la reconnoscr.
From her window she can see the harbour and the people on the docks, so far down she can hardly distinguish the faces.

Cant Halinne sta ivan i poðe gringlar tras sy fenestr e lor cair par pog pie vars arp.
When Halinne was little she could tumble out the window and fall a couple of feet onto grass.

Yam Mott am moneð, lon digr, ma i nel jamay oc faïr a plaç de Halinne. 
Uncle Mott likes money, of course, but he'd never choose it over Halinne.

A sgart calscon i nil jamay deïr l'ig trianç commettr, dec Halinne nil ceu nien taussar.
In any case he'll never have to make the choice, because Halinne will hardly cost anything.