93.1: Leipzig Letter

excerpt in translation from the collected correspondence of Marian Siegert ~ Miller (1725–56), illegitimate daughter of Elias Villingen, second Duke of Far Suebia.

Tu aye, com tojorn, bon cos enter ne flagitar aðelent lengacer lavaç aïr (e cartað demay cos enter ne my presenç parmettr!).
You were, as ever, entirely correct to insist on extra language tutors (and entirely too generous in letting me attend!).

Y Latin obligað a se manifestað com vacquer lon kiveu—nos se trovau ny mal çaucr—py y Theudesc ac seyon parolað se dien ojous equal com ig dy ci actour flamesc noscon aut posc man a stað.
The compulsory Latin has revealed itself less than useless—we run in the wrong circles—but the Dutch they have here is almost as awful as that of those Flemish performers we had some summers ago.

Jo prefay volir habituar, ma interim jo so gavent auvorn demay ne borgogn e bohemian parolant coll'eç soiç d'Albert.
I expect I will acclimate, but for now I am having far too much fun speaking Burgund and Bohemian with Albert's company.

No scey alcun los ag nonçamen noscon caut d'eromn cas pan?
Does the news we get of bread troubles have any basis?

Nos saveu nien confiar declarað par y hebdomader lepcian sur við ag souð dy Danau, ma y rumour Venis e Crovatia partenent dan hougr aðief; veleð enfugr reunt vars Stoccart ða un sign mendrem bodant ig Bavarn erra vars asmuth parey.
We know not to trust anything the Lepzi weeklies have to say about life south of the Danaw, but the rumours about Venise and Crovatia are bad enough; do abscond back to Stuttgart at the slightest sign Bavarn is along the same track.