94.1: grindr "score"

grindr /ˈgrɪn.dr̩/ [ˈgʀɪn.dɐ]
- judge, rate, rank, evaluate, to estimate the worth of;
- score, grade, mark, to indicate the correctness of and give a score to (an exam, etc.);
- deliberate, decide between, mull over, weigh, to consider pros and cons in the course of making a decision;
- (slang) date, be dating, to go out and perhaps sleep with multiple people in turn often as a precursor to commencing a steady relationship

Etymology: from Old Borlish grindre, greindr "sift, separate, allocate, rank", which reflects a Vulgar Latin form *grēniō, grēnere "I sift, sieve, distinguish between". Despite the formal differences, by the semantics we can deduce that this is an altered form of Classical Latin cernō "I sift (etc.)" modelled on the perfect stem (cf. crēvī "I sifted", crētus "sifted, separated"). The initial voicing is sporadic, but shared with related noun grivr < cribrum "sieve".

Alcheðr my paðr ençau a grindr n'Avril.
/alˈkɛ.ðr̩ mi ˈpa.ðr̩ ɛnˈtso a ˈgrɪn.dr̩ naˈvrɪl/
[ɐˈgɛ.ðɐ mi ˈpað‿ʀɪnˈtso a ˈgʀɪn.dɐ nɐˈvʀɪl]
anew 1s.gn father start-pst at date-inf in=April
My dad's been dating again since April.

---

excerpt in translation from the 1990 edition of collected sample scitation papers for the University of Lester's Faculty of Domain History.

Y benoç de lengaç cas racontaçon poð stroy nos descondr sur y discrepanç entr region n'Albion ayent y sfondranç dy Preu Empir Drengoçan ammonir. Arguteð:
The use of language in storytelling can tell us much about the differences between regions of Albion which presaged the collapse of the First Drengot Empire. Discuss:

(i) y droug dy recougl dy siecr catorç "Y ci Cont ag Bosc n'Enfield" poll'expostion ranscellant cas cont a pouvr dy Duc Saðour e sy Band Masquað normalisar, 
(i) the role of fourteenth-century compendium The Tales of Enfield Wood in codifying the divergent folklore interpretations of the Farmer Duke and his Masked Band,

(ii) y dehiscenç aðoint entr y lengaç markesc e cantesc com es tesmognað par y parol inquittað nell'oc recougl, e
(ii) the growing separation between the Merch and Kentish tongues as evidenced by the vocabulary attested in this compendium, and

(iii) diçr alcot se poð motivation dar all'identfianç dy scrittour all'oc ouvr con Jovan d'Yare (y reconnuðessem d'aïr l'accont historic Y Gran Morenç scaut).
(iii) the extent to which the traditional identification of this work's author with John of Yare (most known for having written historical account The Great Dying) can be justified.