95.1: frend "stranger"

frend /frɛnd/ [fʀɛnd]
- stranger, neither a friend nor an acquaintance;
- outlander, foreigner, someone from a different place or (especially) a different polity;
- guest, visitor, one present who is not a member of a given household;
- outsider, newcomer, unknown, unknown quantity, someone from whom one doesn't know what to expect;

Etymology: from Old Borlish frend, fremd, borrowed from Old English fremde "strange, foreign" (for the development of the coda compare hand "sex" < OE hǣmed "sex, cohabitation").

Teyen catorç frend ag tarn candon caye l'occijon.
/tiˈjɛn kaˈtɔrts frɛnd ɛj tarn kanˈdɔn kɛˈje ˌlɔk.siˈʒɔn/
[tjɛn kɐˈtɔːs fʀɛnd ɛj tɑːn kɐnˈdɔn kɪˈʝe ˌlɔk.sɪˈʝɔn]
be-ipf-3p fourteen guest at.df inn when fall-ipf df-murder
The inn had fourteen guests at the time of the murder.

---

Celtic Borland

Y pouvlanç celtesc d'Istr Boral (y Bora Ale noncupað temporane) no's fort mis a regest. Y pog bustr tesmogn de lorry lengaç sousonn an dehiscenç for recent des y lengaç britton; creut es ig il alandau sull'istr des Albion, e noc des y tarmagn cos direct.
The Celt population of Borland (self-described as the Bora Ale) is poorly documented. The few attestations of their language suggest only a recent divergence from the Briton tongue; they are thought to have arrived on the island from Albion, not directly from the continent.

L'oc cultur er conjognt ag sar marcer d'Europ par mejan dell'enascment de stan e de far. Jarry innajað dell'oc epoc es yent trovað tras toll'istr des loy allors remot com Egypt e Pers.
This culture was connected to the European trade mesh via the export of tin and iron. Imported pottery of this period has been found across the island from as far afield as Egypt and Persia.

Y Celt stan compos ne form de bempart tribu; cascun afferjarau picq region eð er regnað des fortalleç colliner. Plaç religious diçr plusour temporane son dessevelið; y celeberrem es y labyrinth a Çadrosc, oc ayent largeç d'apponment lon fondamen cas sell'origin e bers.
The Celts were organised into many tribes, each covering small regions and ruled from hill-forts. Several important religious sites of this time have been unearthed; most famously the Çadrosc labyrinth, which has sparked much unfounded theorising as to its origin and purpose.