96.1: sont "guilty"

sont /sɔnt/ [sɔnt]
- guilty, culpable, responsible (either informally or due to a legal verdict) for a dishonest act;
- sinful, criminal, evil, wicked, morally or religiously wrong
- (archaic) audacious, bold, daring, flouting rules or conventions in an admirable way

Etymology: borrowed from Latin sōns "guilty, criminal" in the early Middle Borlish period for legal use. Unrelated to sont "seventh" [1], with which it may be distinguished by word order (this latter always appears before the noun).

Y costoscment aun l'hom sont vecinað.
/i ˌkɔ.stoxˈmɛnt on lɔm sɔnt ˌve.tsiˈnaθ/
[i ˌkɔ.stʊxˈmɛn‿ton lɔm sɔnt ˌve.tsɪˈnah]
df law.enforcement have.3p df-person guilty locate-p.pst
The police have found the guilty party.

[1] The shortform ordinals preu, scon, tarç, cart, cint, sest, sont, ogtau, noun, degm contrast with the regularised longform ordinals primer, dovem, treyem, catrem, cinquem, seghem, settem, ogtem, novem, deghem.

---

The Romantic Wars

scitation questions in translation from the Dijon New School's domain history course Strategy in the Romantic Wars.

i) Y Conflict Hellen n'Armeny a mesur dy dezein 1640 val sodaltað parmy ci Rix Romannesc ou? Soumettað argument sell'inclujon basfiant e hasmant, cur particuler dant ag kerellanç religious cohernt ag Retorsion Rialid.
i) Should the Hellenic Conflict in Armenia of the 1640s be classified as a Romantic War? Give arguments for and against its inclusion, with particular attention to the religious strife concomitant with the Rialid Revenge.

ii) Ant soumoin all'ouvr Var lon Mur par Vijairana, arguteð y ci apponment y faïblessem endeutant motivation dar all'ableganç de toð y marcant gourjat e seldivan des Moscat d'an 1652 N (1062 H), meis plusour pre y concarnç dell'Imamat Ibadinean par soldatry hadramoçan.
ii) With reference to Vijairania's War Without Walls, discuss the most popular theories attempting to explain the expulsion of all Gurjat and Seldivan traders from Moscat in 1652 N (1062 H), several months before the fall of the Ibadine Imamate to Hadramot forces.

iii) Diçr alcot poðe Morrac profit tenir des y mort dell'Emperour Cariwasari por enajanç d'argent vars y Vetomont monfiar e cossy bors yembr por lorry rix ne cors con Vascony e Libya?
iii) To what extent was Morrack able to exploit the death of Emperor Cariwasari to increase silver exports to the Vetomund and finance their ongoing wars with Vascony and Libya?