98.1: Masquira

excerpt in translation on the subject of the masquira fiction genre.

Romanç a masquira es un spaiðoir de narrað appopulað cos central con parsonaç outrley (ben delit hasmant), tan com tapeçment viglað de character masquað, y bon melle e vellisqment convoluð.
Masquira romance is a genre of stories which typically feature criminal (or crime-fighting) characters, as well as plots driven by hidden identities, high society and complicated schemes.

I surpon y spaiðoir de spionnaç pog tardessem, cos particuler n'ouvr modern poiðant de casc linaç romanial.
It overlaps with the slightly-later spycraft genre, especially in modern works which draw on both literary traditions.

Y nom 'masquira' descen des y trevold d'an 1860 par Ezio Carvallo Tejan de Masquira ou Jalico "Robað de Masq ben Jalicq", stant lað cossirað com ayent y spaiðoir tarront.
The name 'masquira' derives from Ezio Carvallo's 1860 trevold Tejan de Masquira ou Jalico "In Either a Mask or a Suit", which is widely considered to have pioneered the genre.

Romanç a kevlar es un souspaiðoir de masquira caglou irrayant a volry opulent, celebr maxime n'Istr Boral dy siecr novoç.
Kevler romance is a subgenre of masquira focused on glamorous thefts, particularly popular in nineteenth-century Borland.

Degnant ig bempart y jout dy spaiðoir son benoçað ne literatur des aubon dell'hour, nos veim y nascenç d'un spaiðoir de romanç a masquira nell'epoc d'Atelier nuverrem.
Although many of the tropes of the genre have been used in literature since time immemorial, we see the birth of a distinct genre of masquira romance in the late Workshop period.