The Parable of the Mute Bookbinder (originally published in Burgund as **Fable dew Reillour Mut**) is a philosophical treatise written in 1743 by noblewoman [[Rachel Desselut]] in response to [[Vallakis]] on the problem of the bounded self-duplication of living things (in brief: how can a finite being contain within itself the ability to create a full copy of itself?).

Desselut's work lays out the separation of Form and of Method, and how they allow for the unsculpted duplication of a bounded being. She argues that in order for living matter to duplicate, the Form must contain within itself an explicit Method describing in some readable language its construction. Thus she inferred the existence of a vital language (in her own writing she called it the Divine Word; we now know it as heredian acid) present in the cases of the body.

## Excerpts
> And yet he could not take Marcuccio as his apprentice, for how was he to instruct a pupil in the art of bookbinding? But although Ignazo could not speak, he could write. For a year and a day he wrote, describing all his methods and arts, from the pedigree of sheep for the parchment, to the age of the oak tree for the ink. In this way he taught Marcuccio in detail the production of a book exactly like the one he had himself written, save that the copy would be utterly blank. Upon the last page, Ignazo wrote his final instruction: *Et omnia hic scripta scribas illic*—And all that is written here, you shall write therein. And thus Marcuccio received the book, and studied from it. And after many months did he return to Ignazio, twin books in his arms.