10.1: The Emeralds are a Red Herring

excerpt in translation from trevold Y Smaraut son Piescrat "The Emeralds are a Red Herring", one of the early successes in the housebound enigma genre. Written in 1908 by Ausçagm-born author Norrasc Yvauron, the idea for the novel and in particular its Ambrosian setting were likely inspired by her travels in Mendeva and her time in the literary circles of Zaigmonisca.

"Or." Hemma parolau de vois kieð demay. 
“Well." Hemma's voice was too calm. 

"Vray dis jo incoïbr es traiçon. Por mell'envou, repars tu for oy calscon bravur exiguous teyon accomblabr zelous, ben es tu un pascaret trayour lonc y mesur?"
"I did say it always ends in betrayal. Out of interest, did you only now lose whatever excuse for a spine you possess, or have you been a treacherous little rat all along?"

I poðe noc y frigçon a Monick mesveir. "Ja's indeniabr; sou ty man so jo clavir. Ne vertað, jo vil toð adolanç te dar por y sona de credola lon art hamtar tan bel."
She couldn't miss Monick's flinch. "Of course you have; you played me like a fiddle. Truly, I must applaud your dedication to the role of hapless ingénue."

Marça se pleyau eç ogl. "Vel le deniar, Monick."
Marça’s eyes narrowed. “Surely you didn’t, Monick.”

"Pu i poð noc, certan," dis Hemma cos brutal.
“Of course she did,” Hemma said viciously. 

"Bon Deu, Monick, val tu parform ne fabr. Ben ig tu laur plu ag tragçment e te dedey vars lucr fair con tell'experiç real. Y majon de Camin d'Arquèr veln te benoçar lon vacillar, untal agreç a tu vars star benoçað."
“Really, Monick, you ought to be on the stage. Or give up the illustrations and dedicate yourself to selling what you’re actually good at. They could use you on Camin d'Arquèr, for how good you are at being used."