11.1: Developments in Philosophy

excerpted from the 1998 scholastic quire Sviluppi in Philosophia dal Periodo Revitalisto (Developments in Philosophy since the Revitalist Period) by historical deixist Jovanna Ariperto, researcher at the Autonome University of Saint Marinus in Lombardy. 

L'ouvr de Desselut vole remanir irreconnuð tras dou dezein apen (deut majortaðer ag scompigl dy Rix Democratic), e nell'eç annað i vole deïr y combat fugr vars Cantuer norman cos primer e soulor vars Provenç par Portingal.
Desselut's work would go unrecognised for nearly two decades (due predominantly to the disruption of the Democratic Wars), during which time she would be forced to flee first to Norman Kent and later to Provence, via Portingale. 

Cant l'er ac sojornant ençau i a correspondr con y mathematorg Raymond al Moustafa, oc stant temporane hamtant ne Barcelon sou y patronisment dy Duc d'Aragon. 
It was in these years that she began corresponding with mathematician Raymond al Mustafa, who was at the time resident in Barcelon under the Duke of Aragon's patronage.

Lour y lettr nos offriscn un parcevet queglant a methodic primal, ma meðes y dou s'envoloirn may ag ci cohernç issent por við.
Their letters offer a tantalising glimpse into early methodics, although both were more interested in the implications for life.

Desselut ratiocinau ig exist un lengaç vital (parmy sy scaunç a luy i le nommau y Parol Divin) present ny ci casel dy corp.
Desselut inferred the existence of a vital language (in her own writing she called it the Divine Word) present in the cases of the body.