111.1: Early Santrafew

notes in translation on the subject of the New Provincial city of Santrafew [~Boston].

Innascment primal vars Santrafeu abrangen stemn a coval e hopr metal, ec vençað com troc contr pelur e vigt insuet.
Early imports into Santrafew included horse stocks and metal tools, traded in exchange for furs and new foodstuffs.

D'an 1590 Derek Nassow, y heriter imminent por y Ducað a Avosc ne Willemy, enfugheu tras mar vars Santrafeu deut a raçon inconnuð. 
In 1590 Derek Nassow, the heir apparent to the Duchy d'Avosche in Willemy, fled overseas to Santrafew for unclear reasons.

L'oc menau vars un scandal incendier cort soccoðent tras Europ ovester e cos particuler l'oç un de Rey David a Franç.
This led to an incendiary scandal that rocked courts across Western Europe and especially that of King David of France.

Y Travodað Becouin d'an 1621 motivau y comport cas ley entr Santrafeu eð y gent Mendevan ny region fin a pieç generaçon apres.
The 1621 Becouin Treaty outlined the legal relationship of Santrafew to the Mendevan peoples of the region for some generations.

Ne souc dy Gazou Breðonnesc a Santrafeu, yon rumorað er ig y Mastoisèt cos propr soloirn droug entarn, y travodað er broyað par mejan dy coyenç marcer effectuað de Bourgmer Alexandre fi Marco tan con sell'exiglment dy Mastoisèt a verb (eð autr tribu Mendevan a gest).
Following the British Sack of Santrafew, in which the Mastoisèt in particular were alleged to have collaborated, the treaty was broken by Mayor Alexandre fi Marco's embargo and ten-league exile of the Mastoisèt in particular (and other Mendevan groups in practice).