114.1: A Transit of Venus

excerpt in translation from scitation questions lifted from Safford Technic Schole's Spring 89 course Along Natural Theory V: Astronomy from Lorenzo to the Alluning.

Respos dar an soutas calscon dell'ec entrou sevent a mesur de tre hour.
Answer any number of the following questions in the next three hours.

2. Soumoin jaint vars Bensaíd ne L'Appragl de Communeyaçon, argument fair sur y gimmolt mondial d'an 1677 por y trasson de Maucr parcevir com bustr primal de collaboraçon theoretic tars tarm.
2. With reference to Bensaíd's The Communication Toolset, discuss the 1677 global effort to observe the transit of Mercury as an early example of international scientific collaboration.

Racont fair ou dy veyaç dell'astronom Dannesc Gudmund e Rebecca Scradder ag cort Seldivan, ben dy vandy politic all'Observatoir a Trapoles sou Malik Lisan Al-Mostansir.
Chronicle either the voyage of Danes Gudmund and Rebecca Scradder to the Seldivan court, or the political difficulties at the Observatory at Trapoles under Malik Lisan Al-Mostansir.

Illustrar cos mathematic ig gent poðen con y method a tre pognt y lontað ag sol augrimar par mejan de lorry regest de trasson combinað.
Illustrate mathematically how the threepoint method allowed people to calculate the solar distance using their combined transit records.

Scey nis alcot ag defait de gournanç d'hour tranq aðief por ig no sceus un gimmolt parallel durant y trasson Viendran ny dezein 1630?
Was it a lack of sufficiently-accurate timekeeping that prevented such an effort during the Venusian transits of the 1630s?