115.1: The Numeric Week

excerpt in translation from the 14th October 1950 edition of the Roxa Comba, in their regular column called The Numeric Week. The Roxa Comba is a weekly paper based in the Groin [A Coruña] and affiliated loosely with the Russet Dove media guild.

Y Semman cas Nombr - Sambað 14 Octobr 1950
The Numeric Week - Saturday 14th October 1950

1500: Y lonctum par lau de Japetos III, y novel conjogntur Atlantic oy depos des Morrac vars Ambrosia eð ayent sy preu boðanç augtað je Maucr derran. Vellisquað cos original pall'eç administraçon a catr man d'an 1943, l'accommission dene demorað veg monfeyað deut ag confluyenç de hey cas bors e, lon digr, y sounç dy var. Y snar conjogn y citað de Gadir ag floy Soux e Paratzon ne Brasil auster.
1500: The length in leagues of Japetos III, the new Atlantic link laid down between Morrack and Ambrosia which conveyed its first messages this last Wednesday. Originally conceived by the two administrations in concert in 1943, the endeavour was delayed several times due both to budgetary concerns and, of course, the outbreak of war. The cable connects the cities of Gadire on the river Soux [Agadir, Morocca] and Paratzon in eastern Brasil [St John's, Newfoundland].

3: L'enombr de vouð dessur dell'opposson ny cambr Yansief yon y soumission dy clou Zachet por interrogment sull'effectualtað de molin a forç sougl se cof yer eligt, ne souc d'un veðrvent imprefait cas y jure suajonnant dy Minister a Ðar. Partejan aun (ða lorry nosthubr sey visant vars y Collujon ben contrig) caglou irrayað cos divers sull'eç advantaç cohernt a men basant a astraphor Drengoçan e sull'occasion de l'Andron a Alchemy ne Lisbon extollir com mojol ny doujug mondial.
3: The number of votes by which the Mortar coalition's proposal to fund effectivity research into threshold force mills [nuclear power plants] passed in the Yansieve chamber yesterday, after a surprising volte-face from the Ministry for Farming advisory board. Proponents have (depending on their sympathies or lack thereof regarding the Collusion) pointed variously to the benefits of relying less on Drengot astraphor [electricity] and of elevating Lisbon's Faculty of Alchemy to a hub on the world stage.