117.1: New Urban Mesh

notes in translation on the subject of the New Urban Mesh.

Y Nou Sar Urban intermane un alleyanç de citað autonom naðusc n'Europ norðovester durant y siecr novoç.
The New Urban Mesh was an alliance of somewhat autonomous cities in Northwest Europe in the nineteenth century.

Parmy sy sodal stan Londr, Conster, Ausbagn, Pentros, Amstel, Anvers e Gant.
Among its members were London, Conster [Colchester], Axbane, Pentrose, Amstel [Amsterdam], Anvers [Antwerp] and Gant [Ghent].

Y Sar smargoy cos contemporane e parallel a apprestanç politic comportant allors, tal com y Citað Floyan lonc y Danau.
The Mesh emerged contemporaneously with similar political structures elsewhere, such as the Riverine Cities along the Danaw [Danube].

Plusour parmy y citað ag Sar stan cos simoltane part de polity ja sceint (com bustr, Ausbagn e Pentros no stan jamay sovran a verb deur Istr Boral).
Several of the Mesh's cities were simultaneously part of pre-existing polities (for example, Axbane and Pentrose were never legally independent from Borland).

L'oc ort de tal federaç de stat citaðer se caf ascreut all'aðoinç pouvlancer eð y crescenç de citað rapid tras l'approism dell'epoc all'Atelier Mondial.
This rise of such federacies of city-states has been attributed to the rapid population growth and expansion of cities in the run-up to the Global Workshop period.

Y Sar cos particuler sta ag rostr de machinaçon cas vascel costroinç, eð i poðe un ronç remarcabr cavir dy recoglenç de carbon mondial.
The Mesh in particular was at the forefront of shipbuilding technology, and had access to an appreciable fraction of the world's coal production.