121.1: Second German War

notes in translation on the subject of the Second German War.

Y Var Theudesc Dovem (1815–23) sta un rix y condensaðessem n'eiðel Theudesc ma pres toð y polity n'Europ pleitent. 
The Second German War (1815–23) was a conflict centred on German lands but involving almost all the polities of Europe.

L'interman y finisc lonc ustol dy Paç Lonc.
It marks the conventional end of the Long Peace.

L'oc var es cossirað com un part dell'occorrenç mondial dy Rix a Reacçon, ig abrangent de conflict desjognt cas traitment ma contemporane tras y mont.
This war is considered part of the global phenomenon of Reaction War, which includes politically unrelated but contemporaneous conflicts around the world.

Degnant ig Vascony acavaus cos iniçal a noc denir jannestað ny conflict, alcant ig sell'envou ne Mendeva e nell'Aust aurn se caut periglað, rey de lor Hernand IV n'aye l'ouçon sauf var souvr contr y Concert Norðer e sociant con y Convey.
Although Vascony at first managed not to become embroiled in the conflict, once its interests in Mendeva and the East were threatened, then-king Hernand IV had no choice but to declare against the Northern Concert and in favour of the Convoy.

Istr Boral se pleitoy ny var, cossy sceint soldart Borallesc present a cost batman Bavarn e Furlan ag catastroph cas mal gournment dy Battagl a Houlm d'an 1821. 
Borland participated in the war, with Borlish soldiers present alongside Bavarn and Furlain fighters at the disastrously mismanaged Battle of Hulm in 1821.