130.1: The Heedless Shoal

extract in translation from 1952 work Hus Tars (literally "Sheer Haddock", published in translation under the title "The Heedless Shoal"), written by Haubrath author Marc Lambount. It has become a staple of Borlish lessons for those learning the language in the schools of Markland, despite the title's homophony with Merch his tarse "his penis".

Y port dy cahut closisceu ne çottant e Jacq plombettau sur y hamac criscant, las de sy post quiðeyant. 
The cabin door slammed shut and Jake flopped onto the creaky bunk, exhausted from his gruelling shift.

Y puð ojabr dell'effum fæx de ronç insinua toð sy cambr sarrað.
The horrible stench of diesel exhaust permeated his cramped quarters.

De truc l'accaçau sy cofrsac ragottiscent ny gaheç, dont y govon roglfeyað sonaurn de lorry vagiscment famigler.
He shoved his weathered backpack into the locker, whose rusty hinges made their familiar screech.

A starn, l'eç ont inexorabr contonen y tors dy vascel e menan jug sy cogtaçon a lorrell'istranç maritim.
Outside, the relentless waves battered the ship's hull, a constant reminder of their isolation at sea.

No sceye magn solaç deur y caldour soumargent cant tossottau l'appragl d'aeraçon antic.
There was little relief from the oppressive heat as the ancient ventilation system wheezed.

Durant ig l'allonga, sy front moglað de suour, Jacq recuida ant un benaulaçon tart cos inutr all'eç meis gelað seyon passað sur un javigour ny Mar Norðer.
As he lay there, sweat beading on his brow, Jake thought back with too-late appreciation to the icy months he'd spent on a North Sea fishing trawler.