139.1: Just a Man

translation into Borlish of the song Just a Man from the musical Epic, written by Jorge Rivera-Herrans.

Borlish:

    La jo te vey l'ec ogl a tey
    Jo memor l'oç heir a mey
    Tu n'a for sell'asc de cant eu jo ne var

    Mell'ec gest ou vaun ðocaç? Toll'enmig oustað?
    M'offirraun noghaç æternað?
    Quïsc ec ogl neðan y sigt osar
    Com poð jo t'oundrar?

    Jo no's for hom gimmolent a repaðr
    Jug lontan posc toll'annað deull'oç meyon amað
    Jo no's for hom y mort hasmant a strem
    Jo say tout volir por lou reveir, mell'heir e femn
    Jo no's for hom

    Ma cant es un comet denuð un assuvar?
    Cant es un bojay denuð un blas?
    Cant es un hom denuð un monstr?

    Cant es un ondol denuð un rasamar?
    Cant es y raçon denuð y blasm?
    Cant es un hom denuð un monstr?

    Absou mey (3v)
    Jo no's for hom

Literal translation:

    There I see these eye of yours
    I remember that son of mine
    You're only his age from when I went to war

    Do my acts deserve to plague me? All the slain enemies?
    Will they hit back at me with unending pain?
    Close your eyes so as not to dare see
    How can I wound you?

    I'm just a person striving for homecoming
    Still far after all the years from what I love
    I'm just a person resisting death utterly
    I know I'd do anything to see them again, my son and wife
    I'm just a person

    But when has a comet become a meteor?
    When has a candle become a blaze?
    When has a person become a monster?

    When has a ripple become a tidal wave?
    When has the reason become the blame?
    When has a person become a monster?

    Absolve me (x3)
    I'm just a person

Original lyrics:

    I look into your eyes and I
    Think back to the son of mine
    You're as old as he was when I left for war

    Will these actions haunt my days? Every man I've slain?
    Is the price I pay endless pain?
    Close your eyes and spare yourself the view
    How could I hurt you?

    I'm just a man who's trying to go home
    Even after all the years away from what I've known
    I'm just a man who's fighting for his life
    Deep down I would trade the world to see my son and wife
    I'm just a man

    But when does a comet become a meteor?
    When does a candle become a blaze?
    When does a man become a monster?

    When does a ripple become a tidal wave?
    When does the reason become the blame?
    When does a man become a monster?

    Forgive me (x3)
    I'm just a man