150.1: 30th Lexember - sdegn "scorn"

sdegn /zdijn/ [zdɪjn]
- scorn, contempt, disdain, displaying one's feelings that something is inferior or vulgar;
- flak, criticism, bad press, censure, disparaging remarks made towards someone or something

Etymology: deverbal noun from sdegnar "scorn, malign", a derivative of archaic degnar "deign, condescend, begrudge", which comes from Latin dignō "I deem worthy". The word nowadays often connotes that the criticism is undeserved (compare the phrase sdegn accarr "to be wrongly criticised").

A sy lasc novel scey un tombr a sdegn.
/a si lax noˈvɛl xi ɪn tɔmbr̩ a zdijn/
[a si lax nʊˈvɛl çi ɪn ˈtɔm.b‿ʀa zdɪjn]
at 3s.gn film new there.be indf heap at scorn
Her new film's garnered lots of criticism.

---

Death in the Spires

excerpt in translation from the beginning of (IRL) historical mystery Death in the Spires, by KJ Charles.

Jem gasau all'eç parol.
Jem stared at the words.

Lou remane tars eð accusant, hetrous demay sur y lettr tachygraphað lou intermanent, ben y papiraç frail lou portant.
They sat stark and accusatory, too brutal for the typewritten letters that made them, or the thin cheap paper that bore them.

L'encost sta lessy naðusc, com ða y rimband dy tachygraph aye pres s'usað.
The ink was a little faded, as though the typewriter’s ribbon was almost worn out.

No sceye alcun dat, alcun asmuth, alcun souscreut, nien for tre lign de scrit.
There was no date, no address, no signature, nothing but three lines of text.

Jeremy Kite es un mordrer. L'occeu Toby Feynsham. Roveð lour y raçon.
Jeremy Kite is a murderer. He killed Toby Feynsham. Ask him why.

Jem fey y papir reuvr, com ou se poð ec may trovar dereðr.
Jem turned the paper over, as if there might be more on the back.

L'oç broyeu pog, y tremanç de sy man desconent.
It rattled slightly, betraying the tremor of his hands.

I le refey reuvr alcheðr por y parol enverimmað mostrar, e leyau gas vars Sr Leighton, oç asseyent oppos all'acraç gaubanneresc de tablaur, le spiant a min malvolent.
He turned it back again to the poisonous words, and looked up at Mr Leighton, who sat across the mahogany acreage of desk, regarding him with disfavour.