152.1: Apprenticeship

excerpt in translation from Guillotine Hadjatoux's 2001 trevold Tyrocinie "Apprenticeship", her first in a series of deconstructionist tales alluding to tropes in parachthon [specfic] fiction from unexpected points of view.

Y figl de casc gent reuloirn des y campagn autrað. Il stan veilessem, cos primer.
Everyone's children came back from the country changed. They were older, for a start.

Certan entr lou stan çoucherrem, e certan mancan ustolment—certan stan metamorphosað vars joun dy campagn lon alcun residu de Paris entarn, parfait con y vernacr.
Some of them were wilder, and some had no manners—some had transmogrified into country children with not a trace of Paris in them, complete with accent.

Toð y mont souprenent y jammel Tovat stan reuluð fort ustolent ant un zeltað a gimmoldr, ig degnant il stan paravant eç picq beuscr.
To everyone's surprise the Tovat twins had come back well-behaved with a strong work ethic, despite the little louts they had been.

Y joun Pinze, interim, reuluð stragn. Caye noc un autranç vecinabr cos fagl.
The Pinzé children, though, came back odd. It wasn't something readily identifiable.

Il ayen cortiseç eð ovranç aðief por surcrescr de coðelostað, ma tojorn il pariscen gasar vars nuton mental par ogl ayent ancour may vis meðes all'eç dy soldart excavað. 
They were polite and tactful to the point of overcaution, but they always seemed to look into the middle distance with eyes that had seen even more than the hollowed-out soldiers.