153.1: Americas Quiz

questions in translation from the 1930 book Prove your Knowledge!, by Anna and Ralph Highwater.

-5. De cal cainç cas astronomy vene y motif por y nommanç dy gran citað Mascic a Mosctar d'an 1780?
-5. What astronomical event inspired the naming of the major Mashick city of Moshtar [~San Francisco] in 1780?

-6. Y descovrenç de cal natur soustançal fis loy ny citað Cappaçan a Varonøu e l'Asteller de Nÿstad la d'an 1902?
-6. What property of matter was discovered by the Cappatian city of Varonøw [~Vitória, ES]'s Nÿstad Atellier in 1902?

-7. Calun des entr y staddomain lonc y rimot Cappaçan auster se cof primer stablið, ant un chronic corporalleyað ençant d'an 1561?
-7. Which was the first of the staddomains [colonial tradeposts] along the eastern Cappatian coast to be established, with an official chronicle dating to 1561?

-8. Stant un vangard por y Torney Mondial a Lançbal, com digna y concors a lançbal tras tarm accommis primer n'Avasouconda d'an 1909 entr veint tourm?
-8. A predecessor to the Lineball Global Tourney, what was the name of the international lineball competition first held in Awasúconda [~Paraná] in 1909 between twenty teams?

-9. Calun entr y polity Novomondin se pone soul par un delegaçon amenar ag federaçon dy Declar Laic ne Belgrad?
-9. Which was the only Novomundine polity to have a delegation present at the signing of the Laic Declarations in Belgrade?

-10. Com digna y preu vascel Scinesc stant alandað ny Novomont?
-10. What was the name of the first Chinese ship to alight in the Novomund?