157.1: Typewriters

notes in translation on the early development of tachygraph [typewriter] technology.

Tachygraph primal de dezein 1830 e 40 stan fatuous cos imman, dec y majortað a appragl no poðen for lettr inscaur con un mendranç ag hast de lettranç a man doit.
Early tachygraphs in the 1830s and 40s were extremely cumbersome, with most models only capable of setting type at a fraction of the speed of practised handwriting.

Y Tachygraph d'Armanbourg, oc stant accatabr ne Pologn des an 1842, surcayen impernix ne benoç aðief por se cavir narreyað ny fougl pavarrot sou nom dy Bradygraph (a verb y "scrittour lent")
The Armanburg Tachygraph, which was commercially available in Poland from 1842, was so awkward to use that it was lampooned in the bit-sheets as the Bradygraph (literally the "slow writer").

Ceu incommorant destr, sceyen gimmolt vars poðir tachygraph ligar ag sar campaner, a fin oc se sceus un pistol coutoccar sur papir e lor cos simoltane un facsimile dy pistol boðar vars un autr hom.
Since very early on, attempts have been made to connect tachygraphs to the steeplemesh, so that one could type a message onto paper and simultaneously transmit a copy of the message to someone else.

Y preu tachygraph poðent cos particuler pistol boðar par y sar campaner sta y Teleclavia de Vilmanas, oc orðenjað ne Lithou par Toman Vilmanas d'an 1859. 
The first tachygraph specifically able to send messages on the steeplemesh was the Vilmanas Teleclavia, designed in Lithow by Tomas Vilmanas in 1859.

Sy boðanç primer er conveyað sull'oç Sant Michæl vars sell'amig Margreta Legaite ne Tvaniste.
Its first message was sent on Michaelmas of that year to his friend Margreta Legaite in Tvaniste.