159.1: Furlain

notes in translation on the polity of Furlain [Friuli].

Durant y Scon Tetrarchy ny siecr onç e doç, y Marc a Furlagn intermane y porçon y souðeressem nell'Empir Theudesc, cos primer un vassal imperial prose eð aval sousunt cos particuler ny paramontað dy Reyaum a Bavarn.
During the Second Tetrarchy of the eleventh and twelfth centuries, the March of Furlain was the southernmost part of the German Empire, at first a direct imperial vassal and later specifically consolidated under the suzerainty of the Kingdom of Bavarn.

Posc y dissoluçon dell'Empire Theudesc ny siecr treç, y compeðour y frequendessem de Furlagn denoy y Republic a Venis.
After the collapse of the German Empire in the thirteenth century, Furlain's most frequent rival became the Republic of Venise.

Furlagn soffreu un quagment gra d'an 1348 oc ayent y castel e cathedral y dou devastað n'Odin. 
Furlain suffered a severe earthquake in 1348 which destroyed both the castle and cathedral in Odin.

L'eutað por voinaçal cas accostur femel (oc y vesson mascr dy miliç emprontant) inceveu ne Furlagn durant y Paç Lonc ny siecr ogtoç nuverrem.
The armourcloth trend in women's fashion (which emulated men's military dress) began in Furlain during the Long Peace in the late eighteenth century.

Y dob vecin (des voina, un vanagl por un soldart) se cof scavlað n'autr lengaç plusour por l'oc model stikettar.
The local term (from voina, a colloquialism for a soldier) was borrowed into several other languages to describe the style.