166.1: The Ceres Gambit

excerpt in translation from 1952 spycraft trevold The Ceres Gambit (originally published in Borlish as Vellisqment: Ixion), written by Joron Aldaxinte. She was born in the industrial Borlish town of Neuvort, the daughter of a clerk and a minor functionary in the local government.

Caye crevoscr cos tost l'oc jorn. Y ray gaster d'un lun decaint trencan tras ranscel spars e yemal.
Dusk had fallen early that day. The ghost-light of a waning moon cut through sparse, wintry branches.

Sceye veil ney com manton sur y tar dy forest, piestað dessur pall'ombr de pas a toð asmuth.
Old snow blanketed the forest floor, trampled upon with footprints in every direction.

Un hom er le sevent. L'idea parvenoy lon prevart ben motivaçon.
She was being followed. The thought arrived without warning or justification.

I s'interromoy entr y taisc visnous de dou casner antic, cant sy respir fayen dragon nell'aer, eð i da cur all'ouç paçent ny bosc.
She paused between the gnarled trunks of two ancient oaks, her breath dragoning in the air, and took in the woods' patient silence.

Con un maldicçon soçavaver i se commoveu cos lejar y pis, e de sell'azig i sgranfeyau y crost de glaç sou y neyanç.
With a whispered oath she shifted her weight slightly, her boots crunching faintly on the crust of ice beneath the snow.

I s'ortelle y man cos lent vars y nuivr dy glay a sy cegntur eð i se torcheu y doit atorn dell'ans frottað ne cogr.
Her hand moved slowly to the hilt of the blade at her belt and her fingers curled around the worn leather grip.