17.1: These Lamplit Streets

excerpt in translation from Gan Oleυon Lυzeryn (released in Markland under the title These Lamplit Streets), published in 1991 and written by Car Vantel author Gethel ar Tυder.

Cou fort y ci hour kervandal; vale y manoir aziaus lon broit.
It was deep into the hex hours; the manor should have been silent. 

I fo entrað gra de luy, y port gliðant apar e closiscent por toð y ci hou e hurislanç d'autr venatour y noit furtiviscent ablegar.
He’d let himself in, sliding through the door and closing it to keep out the hoots and rustles of other, noisier night-time predators. 

No'r sceut alcun sign de við lonc y banc dy floy cant l'au y majon approismað; i n'au alcun lumner vis tras port, eð i vis alcun oy for sy lucern fosc.
There had been no sign of life on the riverbank as he’d approached; he’d seen no lights from outside, and saw none now beyond his own dark lantern. 

Deye sceir alcun son deur y crasc de bosc veil s'idoneïsant par un noit freit de Novembr, eð y ronganç de Sr Gosbarrick, eð y spaið e kic avenent pront la Challow Ardan ovroy y port all'askouð e volau y diadem de Balkdere.
There should be no noise except for the creak of old wood settling in a cold November night, and Mr Gosbarrick’s snores, and the scrapes and clicks coming as soon as Challow Ardan opened the door of the saferoom and stole the Balkdere diadem. 

Toð cas ig l'aziau calm gelað, ant y pousson dy cour se quinant ne ci oregl, dec l'au foudent uncos oïð.
All the same he stood frozen, his pulse thudding in his ears, because he’d bloody heard something.