170.1: Wales in the Wars

excerpt in translation on the subject of Wales during the Wars of Fealty, and on the Battle of Rexam (1483) in particular.

Y Reyaum a Brittan joun naðusc (compos par Cambry e sy taleð fragossau, cosogr Cornou e Sodric) broucau nell'enç un eðegl de forç, e l'acavau a bempart concession stragr des Marclont durant l'annað primal dy rix.
The relatively new Kingdom of Britain (formed of Wales and its outlying tallaths [provinces], along with Kernow [Brittany] and Sodrick [Man and the Hebrides]) started from a position of strength, and managed to extract many concessions from Markland in the early years of the wars.

L'ec fey ersteigon par un victoir consecter ag Battagl a Car Vantel, yon fo y Duc a Castr final occeut.
These culminated in a decisive victory at the Battle of Rexam, where the last Duke of Chester was killed.

Posc l'oc battagl, Brittan sceu auteç durabr garantir dy region atorn de Car Vantel (ma contrig y gazou sur y citað a Castr pog apres se cou offiruð).
After this battle, Britain was able to take lasting control of the area around Rexam (though the attack on the city of Chester shortly thereafter was rebuffed).

Y polity acavau soulor a se refusar deur y conflict continuant dy Rix cas Fieltað; y ligt entr y polity n'Albion volen remanir jannestað entarn tras trent annað aposc.
The polity then managed to recuse itself from the continued conflicts of the Wars of Fealty; the rest of the polities of Albion would remain embroiled for another thirty years.