176.1: New Urban Mesh (cont.)

additional notes in translation on the subject of the New Urban Mesh, an alliance of autonomous cities in Northwest Europe in the nineteenth century.

Y citað ny Sar son alligað lonc y gentagl con y politic dell'entrlaçorant, tan com y benoç aggressionner e mondial de spionnaç. Interim, outrvaluð cos plausibr es diçr alcot y Sar aye (com bustr) y capabiltað de gournment nell'Aust dirigir por gra de lorry commarç.
The cities of the Mesh are popularly associated with wheeling-and-dealing policy, as well as aggressive and global use of espionage. However, the extent to which the Mesh was (for example) able to steer politics in the East to their trade benefit is likely overestimated.

Ny siecr novoç nuverrem, Londr amenau y Sar vars union cos politic con y Collujon Drengoçan, oc stant temporane un alleyanç smargent dy polity Fransc de Cantuer Norman, Paris e Borgogn. Ou vrayessem es digr ig y Sar denoy sousunt ny Collujon, ben ig y Sar broucau auteç dy Collujon, interman un souject closnautr de disputaçon ðus. 
In the late nineteenth century, London led the Mesh to unite politically with the Drengot Collusion, which at the time was a nascent alliance of the French polities of Norman Kent, Paris and Burgundy. Whether it is more correct to say that the Mesh was subsumed into the Collusion, or that the Mesh took control of the Collusion, has long been a topic of heated debate.

Sr Desarden, Prinç Nuçal (1968), un lasc font ayent des y scandal d'an 1887 atorn de James Desarden, l'ambasctour Londresc a Nacon Day. Creut cos general es ig l'oc affer aye raçon politic e se produghe des stancoranç prose par y Sar.
Mr Desarden, Prince Consort (1968), a film based on the 1887 scandal around James Desarden, London's ambassador to Nackon Day [~Thailand]. The affair is widely thought to have been politically motivated and a product of direct meddling from the Mesh.