18.1: On the Torriot

excerpt from Conjugation, Operation e Diabolica in Musica: Y Commouð Deviant Primal (The Early Deviance Movement), a 1970 historical review written by Borlish popular historian Catrin Veçount.

Nell'oc capparol voum nos un survol accommettr dy ci autranç cas barðment compostion, cas frameð musical, cas apprestanç de melody e harmoin, cas con- e desjogntur deur y model preluïscent, e cas y detaxion de costum mondial con particulertað vecin.
In this chapter we shall undertake an overview of the changes in instrumentation, in musical structure, in melodic and harmonic structure, in con- and disjuncture from the earlier styles, and in the detaxion of global traditions with vicine particularities.

Reconnosc dant all'experiç de Monçating con y barð, commettreu nos parmy scaumel ag toriot.
In light of Monçating's facility with the instrument, let us begin in the pipe family with the torriot.

Pre y siecr novoç, y ci (vangard dy) toriot e barð scaumel cosvour a ton mogn ayen cos usual un yevot sou dou doblanç eð un dureç limitað sad par y defait de lodrigneth modern vars jonc taglar.
Before the nineteenth century, the (precursors to the) torriot and similar low-pitched pipe instruments generally had a range of less than two doublings and the lack of modern reedmaking techniques severely limited their volume. 

For posc l'yenç de forað pedal—adaptað des mechanism tarront par y peria nadasvarm madrayan deur plusour dezein—poðen sofflour a toriot sy tac mogn parnommað acavar (e cos final y nom 'picq tonneðr' valir) tan e sell'yevot alto clar voutent.
It was only with the advent of pedal holes—adapted from mechanisms pioneered with the Madray peria nadaswarm some decades earlier—that torriot players could reach both its famed low notes (and finally be worthy of the name "little thunder") and the startingly clear alto range.