186.1: Global Workshop

notes in translation on the subject of the Global Workshop period.

L'epoc dell'Atelier, ben l'Atelier Mondial, interman y dezein entrpos dy siecr novoç.
The Workshop period, or the Global Workshop, refers to the middle decades of the nineteenth century.

L'oc se descrey par y spanjon e defasment veloç de laboriostur atras dy mont.
It is characterised by the rapid expansion and development of industry across the world.

Scaunç historic normal situn l'epoc dell'Atelier entr y Paç Lonc eð y Bel Joy.
Usual historiography places the Workshop period between the Long Peace and the Good Game.

Se poð y rebondisc dell'epoc dell'Atelier veir par nuton cas art, con un locomoçon deur trevogt e vars (ny preu paum) depegnt mesmeristic dy ranc trevaglour ne laboriostur e (contrig) postulaçon mallovicher sur fanglanç cas clað alcant aposc.
The impact of the Workshop period can be seen in artistic trends, with the shift away from voidtales and towards (on the one hand) realistic portrayals of the industrial working class and (on the other) optimistic speculation on future material advancements.

Y colluy VS (Vindrons Sairzaus), oc stant y forgour dy preu vin aphlox mout vençað, vole lor nell'oc epoc sell'orisont spandr vars autr kynous moliner por sforç lort rigir e por hermeticar, e cossy un eðegl magn profitant gajannar.
The guild VS (Vindrons Sairzaus), which manufactured the first widely-sold fizzing wine, would in this period expand its scope to other high-pressure and sealing components in manufacture, securing a very profitable niche.