190.1: Tell Me, Telmy!

    excerpt in translation from children's educational book Tell Me Everything About the Solar System, part of the Tell Me, Telmy! series originally written by Adamara Godwilham.

Tandic evolgað stan y novel dy descovart dy preu corp celest cos vray insuet posc millenner, gent orðenjaurn plusour nom poll'ec pharī Iovis "balis de Jou".
As word spread of the first really new celestial bodies to be discovered for thousands of years, people came up with lots of names for these pharī Iovis “lighthouses of Jove”.

Certan gent desiran ou lorry patron, segnour ben eiðel glorfeyar.
Some people wanted to bring glory to their patrons, lords or lands.

Autr gent tornan cur vars renarranç de legend classic lor stant all'eutað.
Others reached to retellings of Classical legends which were in fashion.

L'ustol ayent l'ec an durað cas y lengaç European, e stant mantenuð jug candon nos eu fort may de picq lun Jovial trovað a mesur dy siecr derran, interman ig y gyrour de Jou nommar lonc dy prosequent mortal.
The convention that has lasted in European languages, and which has been maintained since we have found many more small Jovial moons in the last century, has been to name Jupiter’s gyrers [satellites] for his mortal descendants.

Nos eu l'issar parey accommis cas y dou lun de Mars, Dimus e Phobus, stant nommað lonc sell'heir jammel e pedisecq.
We have done the same with the two moons of Mars, Dimus [Phobos] and Phobus [Deimos], which are named for his twin sons and attendants.