192.1: Vector Geometry

excerpt in translation from Drawing in the Sand: the History of Calculation, a collaborative reference book originally published 1954 in Napolitan as Scheme ne Rene: a Storia d'Amiradanza by the Agenza Scholaria Fodgesa.

Nell'oc strait, nos indagau y defas dy "method a bout" com annexment de geometry Euclidean.
In this section, we chart the development of the "dart method" as an extension of Euclidean geometry.

Par toð y theorem dy codex Element, reconnuð no's alcun autranç entr un lign AB e sell'envarjon BA.
In all the theorems of The Elements, no distinction is made between a line AB and its reverse BA.

Caye for durant y siecr cinqueç yon scholer ig inclus Barclythe e da Treviso ençan a asmuth ascreir a lign.
It is only in the late fifteenth century that scholars like Barclythe and da Treviso begin to assign directions to lines.

Pall'oc affixion pariscent petty es ig geometour denoirn poðir dou cos signfeyant complir.
It was this seemingly trivial addition that enabled geometers to do two important things.

Primer, ðe errevn quantað ablat destr a dessou dy nimb a convenibiltað cas mathematic European.
First, they brought negative quantities into the realm of respectability in European mathematics.

Con tan l'idea de "mendrem a zefr pom" fos incossirabr, alcun hom no'r vexað par y noçon d'un sojorn bouclant ag pognt iniçal par aðendrar des A vars B, e soulor des B vars A.
Although the idea of "fewer than zero apples" was absurd, no-one was perturbed by the concept of returning to one's starting point by travelling from A to B, and then from B to A.