195.1: Iron Age Borland

notes in translation on Borland in the Iron Age.

L'Asc de Far inceveu sur Istr Boral a veg temporane cos approximað coll'autr Istr Norðovester ny siecr nouf aN.
The Iron Age began on Borland at approximately the same time as on the other Northwestern Isles [Ireland, GB] in the ninth century aN.

Argutað es l'identiað dy preu forgour ne far n'Istr Boral e tan rent convoluð par ont coincident de tramigraçon, ma tandem l'ec hom denoy Kelt cos identifeyabr.
The identity of the first Borland ironworkers is debated and is made complicated by overlapping waves of migrations, but eventually they became identifiably Kelt.

Y derran signfeyant entrell'ec ont intermane parolour de Brythonic primal sur Albion instançant sur Istr Boral des l'ovest ny siecr catr aN, stant ancestr dy picq reyaum de fortalleç colliner l'istr afferjarant all'hour dell'envajon Roman ny siecr un N.
The last significant such wave was of early Brythonic speakers on Albion settling Borland from the west in the fourth century aN, the ancestors of the small hill-fort kingdoms which covered the island at the time of the Roman invasion in the first century N.

Scein costroinç palæochthon plusour sur Istr Boral ec y migraçon de Kelt preluïscent ma rebenoçað par y Kelt ne lorry rit.
There are several archaelogical structures on Borland which predate the Kelt migrations but which the Kelts repurposed for ritual use.

Y parnommaðessem entrell'ec plaçment es un "labyrinth" noncupað se situant sur Vrug a Çadrosc ny norðovest dell'istr.
The most famous of these sites is a so-called "labyrinth" located on Çadrosc Heath in the northwest of the island.

Scein tan bempart muðel temp dað nell'oc asc, oy "pieðr sarzin" nommað.
There are also many cairns dating to this period, now called "sarzin stones".