198.1: Lexember 2025 - 1: offiçar "set"

offiçar /ˌɔ.fiˈtsar/ [ˌɔ.fɪˈtsɐː]
- appoint, nominate, select, elect, to formally name to a particular rank or position of responsibility;
- designate, assign, allocate, to bestow a role or duty upon;
- post, set, emplace, station, deploy, to place at a particular location to perform a particular task

Etymology: late Middle Borlish, a derivation either vernacularly or within Scholastic Latin from noun offiç "office, position; duty, responsibility, task", from synonymous officium in Classical Latin. The term was originally most common in military and ceremonial contexts, and has broadened significantly to many technical settings.

Vos val joddy offiçar ag costosc dy bauglment.
/vɔz val ʒɔˈdi ˌɔ.fiˈtsar ɛj kɔˈstɔx di bojlˈmɛnt/
[vɔz val ʝʊˈdi ˌɔ.fɪˈtsɐː‿ʀɛj kʊˈstɔx di bʊjlˈmɛnt]
2p worth nightwatchman set-inf at defence of-df campsite
You should set watchmen to guard the camp.

===

Kilshaw Collective

notes in translation on the subject of a group of Merch children's authors.

Y communtað scrittour a Kilshaw sta un çaucr d'autour Markesc toll'ec veunt ne ben jos Kilshaw, un hamblot ny region norðovester de Marclont.
The Kilshaw writers' collective were a group of Merch authors who all lived in or around Kilshaw [Culcheth], a village in the northwestern part of Markland.

Y çaucr sta floriscent durant y dezein meg ny siecr veint, e l'es reconnuð cos principal par lorry ranc plusour editað tras lonc de stoir por ivan.
The group was active through the middle decades of the twentieth century, and is remembered mainly for several long-running series of children's books.

Y ranc de Kilshaw aun se caut tradoit vars eç doçan de lengaç, e bempart son denuð phthongað ne form ig inclus sobot ben phasm.
The Kilshaw series have been translated into dozens of languages, and many have been adapted to formats such as sobot [radio] or phasm [television].

Stoir de Kilshaw affustaurn l'art de scavr, narreyanç ben mensc faint all'eutað eð a nuton ne literatur adult, racont scaunt ne spaiðoir com masquira, comedy soiçal ben trevogt ec heros joun protagoneyant par surcresc.
Stories from Kilshaw made an industry of aping, parodying or homaging trends and fads in adult literature, telling tales in genres like masquira, social comedy or voidtale that happen to feature child protagonists.

Y hamblot es denuð un mojolon cogmaðer petty por famigl joun ben poll'eç envoluð cas livr, ant un relicquat e feir frequent panelleyað de character de Kilshaw.
The village has become a minor tourist destination for families or for the literary-minded, with a museum and regular fetes themed around Kilshaw characters.