199.1: Lexember 2025 - 8: hoxar "set"

hoxar /hɔˈksar/ [hʊˈksɐː]
- set, sic, to cause (e.g. an animal) to make an attack or pursuit;
- rile up, aggravate, rabble-rouse, agitate, to cause to become excited or angry especially at some perceived villain or scapegoat

Etymology: early Modern Borlish, allied (along with interjection hox "attack!") with Saxon hoxen, Bavarn huchsen and Carnish huschken, all meaning roughly the same thing. Possibly just a onomatopoetic formation, but the formal similarity of Crovatian huškati "provoke" is also suggestive.

Y barvier hoxn lorry cloðour sur y taisson.
/i barˈvjɛr hɔk.sn si kloˈður sɪr i teˈsɔn/
[i bɐːˈvjɛː hɔks si klʊˈðʊː sɪː‿ʀi tɪˈsɔn]
df shepherd set 3s.gn terrier on df badger
The shepherds set their terrier on the badger.

===

Jasper Detchard's Military Career

continued translation from the beginning of [real-life] book The Henchmen of Zenda by KJ Charles, a 2018 pastiche of the 1894 romp The Prisoner of Zenda.

L'oc me convene fort, con ja Larry es petty demay por mell'arveiðr e demastr demay por my gost.
This [my family disposing of me to India via the Army] suited me well, since England is too small for my fancy and too moralistic for my tastes.

Cos infeliç, y Centuir galau Larresctað cosogr, eð all'envou d'un stoir stendiscent e scur scandalous abrejar, jo me cof depoussað.
Unfortunately, the Army brought Englishness with it, and to cut a long and doubtless shocking story short, I was cashiered.

Jo saleu dy Centuir ant veðrdon nombrous por scrim, un destourm lon mensc, un parnommanç de duvar a joy de blad (just dignað), un autr por broucanç par y fout noc osant se nommar (cos parey), eð un rekest de my famigl por ig jo reconnoscray plu my parenç con lou, dec ðe desiran alcun con mey. 
I left the Army with numerous prizes for swordplay, a dishonourable discharge, a reputation for cheating at cards (fairly earned), another for indulgence in the fuck that dare not speak its name (ditto), and a request from my family that I no longer claim kinship with them, since they wanted none with me.

Jo lour dau l'oç obeïscenç e me nommau Detchard, lonc y toun yon primer jo favuau un segr, e Jasper, par raçon ig ða y fortun dy við an hom es denir un beuscr dy Bel Joy, val aðief y joy luïr toð vars y nuivr.
I did them that service and named myself Detchard, after the first town where I sucked a man off, and Jasper, because if one’s lot in life is to be a Victorian villain, one might as well play the game properly.