2.1: Waging World Peace

excerpt taken from 1880s-set trevold Paç Mondial Accommettent (Waging World Peace), written by Neuvort writer Dion Becolla and published in 1968 during the General Italian Fervour, although it owes more to the masquira genre in most respects.

"Façau follanç all'area fruy pre un douçur cascun triar ou?" dis Benjamin. Luy e Martha aurn toð y desc delið, e futil enter sta y residu dy collocq attendr a prolongar—lonc y bustr ig, y concið de Lucas parisce cos implausibr s'accommettr megl a sell'un. Yvet sta toð cas sona luyent de cur dar ag monolog de Lucas.
"Let's take a spin on the dance floor before dessert, shall we?” Benjamin said. He and Martha had cleared their plates, and there was no point prolonging what remained of the conversation—in that respect Lucas' date seemed impossibly to be going better than his. Yvette was at least pretending to pay attention to Lucas' monologue.

Martha accordau, stant clar yent an conclujon cosvour.
Martha agreed, having clearly come to a similar conclusion.

Le souprenent, y domn surcou fort fruyour, ant pas leger e gournanç d'hour scur.
To his surprise, she proved a good dancer, with light steps and a good sense of timing.

Tandic ençau y cançon sevent, i vis ig Yvet oncau Lucas all'area fruy. Benjamin parceveu n'approvant ig i luy tenoy man distr con pogn fatuous e skassant—y compromis seyon fair accougl dec Lucas refusau y pie d'Yvet piestar. Surcas au y fait ig degnant i volois pront eð allagr se fornir d'aer issugt, i spornau skiseç mancar.
As the next song started, he saw Yvette dragging Lucas onto the dance floor. Benjamin noted with approval that he held her right hand in an awkward, crushing grip—the compromise they'd reached over Lucas' unwillingness to tread on her feet. Apparently, while he had no objection to being dull, he drew the line at clumsy.

Benjamin apponoy ja oc eus. Defait de skiseç volois noc un aer de vertað por toð gent ayent le vis ne combat.
Benjamin supposed it was just as well. Feigned clumsiness wouldn't have been believable to anyone who had seen him fight.

Un complet boncop eð un camis fossettað noc obstroint, Lucas farau fort ne fruyant—ligs e graçous. Parcanç aðief ig Yvet cossiraus valir sy collocq souvar par toð y tædium.
Despite the cheap suit and the wrinkled shirt, Lucas fit in on the dance floor—sleek and graceful. Maybe enough so that Yvette would consider it worth suffering through his conversation.