201.1: Lexember 2025 - 22: niveu "set"

niveu /niˈvaw/ [nɪˈvaw]
- set, track, stream, a subdivision of students formed into a subject class on the basis of aptitude;
- (by extension) tier, echelon, rank, position in an administrative or military hierarchy

Etymology: late 19th century, borrowed from Roun French nivew "level, tier" during educational reforms in the Drengot Collusion (of which Borland was a part). This was itself borrowed from Parisian, descending after dissimilation and a gender change from Latin lībella "level (builder's tool)". Extension out of the school setting is seen from the mid-20th century.

Certan dy niveu catr son y scaunç de melodram parsiscent.
/tsɛrˈtan di niˈvaw ˈkat.r̩ sɔn i xonts de ˌme.lɔˈdʀam ˌpar.ziˈxɛnt/
[tsɪːˈtan di nɪˈvaw ˈka.tɐ sɔn i xonts de ˌme.lʊˈdʀam ˌpɐː.zɪˈçɛnt]
some of-df set four be.3p df writing of musical study-p.prs
Some in the fourth set are learning musical scriptwriting.

===

Ricardo Ivarrachezurí

notes in translation on a nineteenth-century agricultural scientist.

Ricardo Ivarrachezurí sta un theorist ðaral de Vascony, oc combat faint com mozardist durant y Var Theudesc Dovem.
Ricardo Ivarrachezurí was a farm theorist from Vascony, who fought as a mozardist during the Second German War.

Ivarrachezurí surcay y preu theorist a parcevir ig cuivr sceus sperm occeir, remarc scaunt d'an 1824 ig "y semn dy taur, dy veð ben y stoðr toð parey dienn impossent par mejan de lou vardir tras pieç hour n'un spuit ne cuivr".
Ivarrachezurí was the first theorist to record the ability of copper to kill sperm, noting in 1824 that “the seed of the bull, the ram and the stallion alike are made impotent in storing them for some hours in a syringe of copper”.

I connoy ig l'oc concorda ag mechanism comoscon cuivr coïsce contamen.
He recognised that this was the same mechanism by which copper prevented infections.

Degnant ig l'oc natur poçonnant de cuivr vole alcant aposc benoç sarvent yembr ne contrgentour, Ivarrachezurí le traita com problem por saðour attenent a piver pollenir cos artifiçal.
Although this sterilising property of copper would later be productively used in contraceptives, Ivarrachezurí treated it as a problem for farmers attempting to artificially breed livestock.