202.5: Braxoch beet

excerpt from a page from the distributed library on the Markland vicine mesh, about the braxoch beet.

…variously also named golden beet, gilt beet, manegold, sweetbeet, is a variety of beet (plant ✾2.1.17.1) which is characterised by the golden flesh and high sugar content of its root. Cultivation of braxoch beet is responsible for a significant fraction of sugar production in many temperate polities: as of 2025 it originated over four parts in five of sugar consumed everywhere on Albion. 

The name braxoch first enters the Merch language in the 1740s, via Borlish and Polish from Cassuvian braxoch "fine beet", an augmentative of brac "beet", which reflects Medieval Latin borāgō "borage" (further origin disputed).

History

The Willem [~NE France, NW Germany, Benelux] botanist Tewis Camigner, who was active during the Revitalist period in the sixteenth century, offers the first surviving written sources noting the high sugar content of beet, describing the billrod [cochineal red] hue and sweetness of a syrup he extracted from natural beets. However, the low concentration of sugar (perhaps one part in eighty) and the presence of other untasteful substances in the syrup made it no substitute for the sugarcane increasingly cultivated in the Novomund [Americas] over the following two centuries.

This changed with the Pentrose survey of the 1730s. Borland having recently been severely limited in its access to Novomundine trade, the state coordinated with the University of Pentrose to locate productive or otherwise useful cultivars of many plants. The survey's crowning glory was the development of the braxoch, which seems to have been a hybrid of Silesian and Cassuvian stock. 

Alchemy

The golden colour and high sugar content of the braxoch beet are intimately connected. The clause [gene] which instructs beet to produce its red pigments is located in the same heredian volume [chromosome] (volume II), very near a clause regarding the production of a sugar tinderbox [enzyme]. It is believed that beet breeding led to miscopying of this volume which simultaneously broke the red pathway (causing yellow pigments to predominate) and triggered a much higher rate of sugar production in the root.

Altering volume II also led to a thinner, more brittle skin, which would usually leave such beet more vulnerable to fungal infection during growth (partially explaining, in an Iscovalian sense, why this presentation is absent in the wild). However, braxoch beet exhibits another, independent alteration; it produces a non-functional iron marker [sensor]. This causes it to remain stuck in a low-iron regime, producing a much higher concentration of oromarynx [riboflavin; vitamin B₂], a yellow-orange substance and aqueous essence [water-soluble vitamin]. Oromarynx, which gleams under surblavic [UV] light, also has counterzoic [anti-microbial] properties which are activated by exposure to such light.

Hence, alterations which are individually costly become…