206.1: Borrhatic League

notes in translation on the Borrhatic League.

L'Alleyanç Borrhatic es un congeries de colluy indrec e de band por gest politic oc caglou irrayant sur gournment laïc, condoçment e (ne dezein recent) tan promoçon de paç e de reclam.
The Borrhatic League is a collection of charitable organisations and political action groups with a focus on laic governance, education and (in recent decades) also pacifism and objection.

L'Alleyanç se macquau des collaboraçon entr communtað de creinç minortaðer ny clas ovrer tras Europ Norðer ny siecr novoç primal.
The League grew from collaboration between working-class groups of minority faiths across Northern Europe in the early nineteenth century.

L'Alleyanç denoy primer prominent ag taug de polity a mesur dy Var Teudesc Dovem ny dezein 1820 e par y souc den.
The League first rose to prominence on the scale of polities during the Second German War of the 1820s and in its aftermath.

Com bustr, Hilgart e Michel Bervisson broucan influyenç nell'Alleyanç Borrhatic n'Istr Boral lor, cos particuler cas hortaminanç vars soffrisc religious.
For instance, Hilgart and Michael Bervisson were influential in Borland's Borrhatic League at this time, especially with regards to calls for religious tolerance.

Malgrað ig l'Alleyanç Borrhatic eð y commouð a Desveyanç contemporane son discrepað (cos occajonal conflagrant), reconnuð es y dou aun parol contriboit ny Declaraçon Laïc d'an 1850 ne Belgrad.
Although the Borrhatic League and the contemporaneous Deviance movement have had (occasionally explosive) disagreements, both are known to have contributed verbiage to the 1850 Laic Declarations in Belgrade.