211.1: Cyra the Mason

excerpt in translation from the 1978 compendium Cyra the Mason, and Other Stories (originally published in Borlish as Cyra Cimter e Racont Ancour), compiled by Borlish author Willaum Desq. Also known in his role as a Kentish media personality as Godwilham Desk, he wrote modernised adaptations of myths and fairy tales in order to appeal to children (not entirely through bowdlerisation).

Y reyaum soffreu par un yarn amaug, eð y torn dy saçon venoy cosogr for un erref teun.
The kingdom suffered a deep winter, and the turn of the seasons didn't offer much relief.

Caye un neyanç vert, eð y vent torveglous de stað vagiscen con respir quaglant e gelant.
Snow fell in spring, and the storm-winds of summer howled with a biting, icy breath.

Rumour parvasiscen y rout ny citað creint ig y Cauç Ragnt aye y coroun n'argent volað dy Domn de Joivr, e la pretene a y tar venjar fin a lo fos luy algebrað.
Rumour spread through the city streets that the Wild Hunt had stolen the silver crown of the Lady of Frost, and she intended to punish the land until it was returned.

Je Coyol de Stað, y Rey ny Dal amandau haubrjour por heros voccar des par toll'eiðel e por lou armar a y reyaum soucorrir.
On Midsummer's Day, the King in the Valley sent heralds to summon heroes from throughout the realm and to charge them with saving the kingdom.

Segr Berengal avenoy any sy gavlot sacr, eð y voutaç de Çadrosc entraurn volant dy ciel ovester.
Sir Berengal arrived with his holy lance, and the witches of Çadrosc flew in from the western sky.
