212.1: Spring Sorties

excerpts in translation from "what's on" information for 2026 Spring disseminated by the Alster [Alcester] town council to inform locals and tourists of public (and privately advertised) events in the near future. Alster is a commuter town in Markland around fifteen leagues [30 miles] south of the capital city of Tommarth [Tamworth].

20 je Viendr–23 je Lun: ceremony e gaviscenç poll'Id a Desjeun. Toð gent ag toun son ne cordialtað reconvoccað cos particuler ag Festeul dy Masquet je 21 Sambað, scenað ne nostr y Masquet ag Rif—y scon veilessem masquet ant issar continu ne Marclont.
20 Friday–23 Monday: ceremonies and celebrations for the Ides of Breakfast [Eid al-Fitr]. All townspeople are warmly invited in particular to the regular Masket Ball on 21 Saturday, held in the town's Riverbank Masket [mosque]—the second-oldest continuously-operating masket in Markland.

25 je Maucr–26 je Jou, 31 je Mart: tre parformanç pall'Ensembr de Domn Maud com un staç dell'Aðendrment dy Siecr tras toð Albion por y centein mungar posc y creaçon dell'ensembr. L'ormal vil un bevey de strait des y melodram de Cráyenschot Ad Pentaculum abrangir, tan con un emblemat de music de lasc Markesc lonc y dezein.
25 Wednesday–26 Thursday, 31 Tuesday: three performances by the Lady Maud Orchestra as part of the Century Tour across all of Albion to mark one hundred years since the orchestra's creation. The programme will include a suite of excerpts from Cráyenschot's opera Ad Pentaculum, as well as a medley of Merch film music through the decades.

Avril, 1 je Maucr: narranç prose e luïscenç dramatic mensual ag majon livr. Y stoir d'Avril es y Cocqlaury, y preu livr ny series de fancy Sour Samborn par y communtað a Kilshaw. Nos rannuðau y producçon dell'oc meis por joun eld des 3 vars 13.
April, 1 Wednesday: monthly live reading and dramatic enactment at the library. April's story is The Hinterlands, first book in the Samborn Sisters series of fancies by the Kilshaw collective. We recommend this month's event for children aged 3 to 13.
