217.1: Lower Mendeva

notes in translation on the subcontinental region of Lower Mendeva.

Mendeva Bassem es un region geographic abrangent dy part souðer ny tarmagn de Mendeva, se situant all'ovest dy Bugt Mendevan.
Lower Mendeva is a geographical region comprising the southern section of the continent of Mendeva [North America], located west of the Mendevan Gulf.

Parveg l'oc dob contien oðig l'eç istr dell'Arcabil, eç se situant entarn dy Bugt amont.
The term sometimes also includes the islands of the Arcabil [Caribbean], which are located within said Gulf.

Communeyaçon entr Mendeva Bassem eð y Vetomond fey commet ny siecr cinqueç jagerrem par vascel marcander soll'ægid dy Colluy dy Nou Mont des Morrac.
Contact between Lower Mendeva and the Vetomund [Old World] began in the late fifteenth century with merchant ships from the Morrack New World Company.

Ny region prepondr y polity de Mascic, oc se respandent des cost vars cost e vars y norð cos suffighent por tarmn broucar con Mivoc all'ovest e con Taisca all'aust.
The region is predominated by the polity of Mashick [~Mexico], which stretches from coast to coast and so far north as to border Mivock [~northern California] in the west and Taisha [~Texas] in the east.

Plusour fanglanç barric a mesur dell'epoc dell'Atelier smargoy des Mendeva Bassem, cos plausibr deut a piver cas issar lonc y spanjon hastous d'accaç a gevr.
Many barric [electric] innovations of the late Workshop period came out of Lower Mendeva, likely due to practical concerns around the rapid spread of wired post.

Jusc y siecr doç jagerrem, l'oc region fo denuð enajour diçr de mansc ig inclus maus eð ambac.
By the late twentieth century, this region had become major exporters of foods such as mause [bananas] and ambacks [mangoes].

Larc març trocað aun lorrel'orin ne Mendeva Bassem, com bustr gles a bilrod, scoclet, scadom e tascban.
Many trade goods originated in Lower Mendeva, including billrod dye [cochineal], shockle [chocolate], shadomes [tomato] and tashban [vanilla].
