220.1: Dunclothe

notes in translation on Dunclothe [~Strathclyde, Cumbria], a political and cultural region of western Albion [Great Britain], located south of Scotland and north of Markland [Mercia].

Ny siecr onç primal, Duncloð sta un sodal entr un collujon de reyaum Dannesc.
In the early eleventh century, Dunclothe was part of a confederation of Dane kingdoms.

Interim, l'oc statu quo borjonna sur sfondrar a mesur dy spanjon veloç dy Preu Empir Drengoçan vars y souð, oç Norðhumbr sousument cosogr y majortað dell'Albion souðer.
However, this state of affairs was about to collapse with the rapid expansion of the First Drengot Empire to the south, which incorporated Northumber along with most of southern Albion.

Lonc y siecr sevent Duncloð dene amiablessem con Cambry nou unið, ec alley se ponent oppos de possenç Drengoçan.
The following century saw Dunclothe grow closer to newly-united Wales, allies in opposition to Drengot power.

Ny siecr catorç e quinç, pescment nell'Atlantic Norðer dirigið par Duncloð stan un enajour diçr de bacalau issugt e/ben tannið, lo vençant tras y sar d'Istr Boral e de Vascony vars allors lontan com y Miterran Auster.
In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, Dunclothe-led fisheries in the North Atlantic were a major exporter of dried and/or cured cod, selling it via the meshes of Borland and Vascony as far afield as the Eastern Middlesea.

L'oc commarç intermane un poið excellent de moneð por y vecintað.
This trade was a notable source of specie for the vicinity.
