221.1: The Long Peace

notes in translation on the subject of the Long Peace period (1770–1815).

Cayen fanglanç diçr cas y theory de við nell'oc epoc, ig inclus y descovart ig y cundr caser hamta y "lengaç vital" de Desselut.
There were major advancements in biology in this period, including the discovery that the cell nucleus housed Desselut's "vital language".

L'oc sta complið par y theorist Manesc Camdar d'an 1813 par meyan d'interrogment ny fecondaçon a spogn marin, yon le parceveu ig y nouç casel de sperm unisc coll'oç dell'ou.
This was achieved by theorist Manesh Camdar in 1813 via research on marine sponge fertilisation, in which he observed that the nucleus of sperm unites with that of the egg.

Simoltane sceyen descovart alchemic, ig inclus bempart corporal novel. Com bustr, janthin er descovart ne Zampanagar d'an 1778, e machovin ne Pologn an dezein apres.
In parallel were chemical discoveries, including many new elements. For example, iodine was discovered in Zampanagar in 1778, and strontium in Poland a decade later.

A mesur dy Paç Lonc caye l'inceuçon dy Commouð a Desveyanç, ig inclus l'ediçon incendier d'an 1799 E Nos Amareu y Foy.
The Long Peace saw the inception of the Deviance Movement, including the incendiary 1799 publication And We Will Love the Fire.

L'eutað de voinaçal (por vesson a domn adornað lonc ornat militer) se mette afaç primallessem nell'oc epoc, e ja lo's alligað y starchessem con ac, ig degnant plusour resorgenç.
The armourcloth fashion (of women's dress decorated in the style of military uniform) has its beginnings early in this period, and is still most strongly associated with it, despite several revivals.
