222.1: Second Roman Empire

notes in translation on the Second Roman Empire from the first millennium through the Second Tetrarchy period.

Plusour heresy Chrestan ayen lorrell'orin ny Scon Empir Roman, cos particuler durant y preu millenner.
Many Christian heresies had their origins in the Second Roman Empire, especially in the first millennium.

L'ec son abrangent de casc y 'heresy Greçan' noncupað, tan com Marmeronism.
These include all the so-called 'Grecian heresies', as well as Marmeronism.

Candon parson nell'Empir ec tal sentenç sposant acavau a influyenç signfeyant accarr, l'Empir se pone nacleu a lou exiglar vars communtað monastic slognað.
When individuals in the Empire who espoused such viewpoints acquired significant influence, the Empire had a propensity for exiling them to far-flung monastic communities.

A mesur dy Scon Tetrarchy, l'Empir attegneu un zantr cas eðegl (alcant y concarnç de Derban d'an 1206), yon lo gournau feu des Corsc ny vest vars y Mar Hazaran nell'aust.
During the Second Tetrarchy, the Empire reached a territorial maximum (with the capture of Derban in 1026), controlling lands from Corse in the west to the Hazaran [Caspian] Sea in the east.

Interim, pall'oc epoc y region peripheral broucaurn autonomy signfeyant, cos particuler yonoscon l'autortað sovran dy Papacy Roman incombisce maissem ag possenç de Stamboul.
However, by this time the outlying regions enjoyed significant autonomy, especially where the independent power of the Roman Papacy loomed larger than the might of Stamboul.
