224.1: Mashick

notes in translation on the Mendevan [North American] polity of Mashick [~Mexico].

Vascel Morracan ny Colluy dy Nou Mont stablisceurn ligaçon commarcer ny siecr quinç jagerrem coll'Empir Mascic joun naðusc, oc stant nell'oç epoc fort circonscreutessem cos geographic.
Morrack vessels of the New World Company established trading relations in the late fifteenth century with the relatively-new Mashick Empire, which at that time was much more geographically restricted.

Ny dezein prosequent seget Novomondin monfeyað se correurn tras l'occeyan Atlantic des Mascic, com bustr tascban e scoclet.
The next decades saw many Novomundine crops make their way across the Atlantic from Mashick, including tashban and shockle.

Mascic e Tavancy luïsceurn sona de mojol por y geoscopy dy païsaç Mendevan.
Mashick and Tavancy served as bases for exploration of Mendevan lands.

Flottisc carteyaurn cos slognað allors jusc l'Ax, e Mascic sarveu a gournanç issarr sur porçon dell'Arcabil e lorry risceç aðoyent.
Fleets charted as far afield as the Ax, and Mashick was used to exercise control over parts of the Arcabil and their growing riches.

Mascic ny siecr novoç intermane un entrell'amaçgat ðescnat dell'Ubictað, y doctrin politic smargent.
Nineteenth-century Mashick was one of the hotbeds of the nascent political philosophy of Ubiquity.

Lo traiscnau Mendeva Brittannesc cas l'adopçon dy novel moraltað des y Renovellaçon Famigler, ma con tan ny siecr veintem primal l'aye lou attegnt.
It lagged behind British Mendeva in the adoption of the new morals of the Household Renovation, although by the early twentieth century it had caught up.
