225.1: Medieval Rouen

notes in translation on the Norman city of Roun [Rouen].

Fondað par y Gallesc, lonc y Roman y citað digna Rotomagus e lonc y mesur l'intermane y sce dell'evesquað vecin nell'epoc dy Mitað-Asc primal.
Founded by the Gauls, the city was known to the Romans as Rotomagus and it became the seat of the local bishopric in the early medieval period.

Ny siecr nouf sceye l'envajon dy Normant afont dy region cosogr y Paramontað Dannesc modo magno; d'an 850 Roun er seyon gournað.
The ninth century saw the incursion of the Normans into the region as part of the wider Dane Supremacy; by 850 Roun was under their control.

Ag siecr onç er Roun denuð yon sceye y cort dy dynasty Drengot, oc y Ducað a Normandy regnant com vassal meg autonom.
By the eleventh century Roun had become the seat of the Drengot family, ruling the Duchy of Normandy as a semi-autonomous vassal of the Kingdom of the Franks.

Posc y Conjuraçon Cornovan e lor y nastiscenç dy Preu Empir Drengoçan oc y bempart d'Albion eð y plurem de Gal abrangent, Roun er maugrfeyað.
After the Kernovan Conjuring and the formation of the First Drengot Empire covering much of Albion and most of Gaul, Roun was sidelined.

L'Emperour Drengoçan tramigraurn lorry cort a Paris, con tan ðe parmaneurn a y ducað a Normandy eð a Cantuer posseïr lou meðes.
The Drengot Emperors moved their court to Paris, although they continued to personally own the duchies of Normandy and Kent.

L'oc epoc oscey y commet dell'union politic pardurant dell'ec dou region y Canal Cantuer parlocant.
This period marks the beginning of the persistent political union of these two regions on either side of the English Channel.
