226.1: The Heir and the Spare

continued translation from the beginning of [real-life] book The Henchmen of Zenda by KJ Charles, a 2018 pastiche of the 1894 romp The Prisoner of Zenda.

L'oc nolois surcair glonscellous sad just ða y scon femn aus dottr menað a nascenç.
This would not have been a great problem if the new wife had had daughters.

Doum sceint cossy, la nastisceu un heir, un ivan ayent sy pariscenç heritað eð eld un picq dou annað postir soll'heriter reyal.
Fate being what it is, she produced a son, a child who inherited her looks and was just two years younger than the royal heir.

Y scuir receveurn cos raut reconnoscenç com Rudolf Rous e Michael Saf, magn harmonent con y terrentað dy Fradr Grimm oç intermanent Ruritania.
The boys quickly became known as Red Rudolf and Black Michael, very much in keeping with the Brothers Grimm landscape that is Ruritania.

Jo vil vos digr l'oc: alcun hom entr nos no sta aure.
I will tell you this: none of us there was snow white.

Y scuir sceurn s'ojar lou meðes pre ðe sceurn parolar.
The boys learned to hate one another before they learned to speak.

Michael sta frastr eð audaç e carið par lorry paðr tandic Rudolf sta bleic e spagent, alor Rudolf oja Michael.
Michael was sturdy and daring and beloved by their father where Rudolf was pallid and fearful, so Rudolf hated Michael.

Ma Rudolf sta un prinç tandic Michael no sta nien, alor Michael oja Rudolf, con un passion oç se souðurent afont luy cos briglandessem lonc ig y launt de Rudolf deneu saviblessem.
But Rudolf was a prince where Michael was nothing, so Michael hated Rudolf, with a passion that smouldered in him the more strongly as Rudolf’s failings became more apparent.

Le sta un morvaç meyaulant, keyottað, cateu e malvaç, ma le remane y sindr, e l'Elphberg rous de sanc pur, e donc le vole y rey.
He was a puling, indulged, nasty, malicious brat, but he was the older, and the pure-blood red Elphberg, and so he would be king.
