23.1: The Girdled World

excerpt in translation from Milda'h Ragner's 1954 popular history Grex Byd: Kyvarvod y Vaωr Morωn (A Girdled World: The Great Borunesk Meeting)

Veraçter, may a doç scourmer ny Phœbos sou mac Kellot saven arabesc parolar un pog toð cas; l'eiðel commarcer brittesc e morracan ern surponent ne Gal e Spagn pres dou siecr all'oc hour.
In fact, more than a dozen crewmembers of mac Kellot's Phœbos had at least some Arabic; the British and Morrack mercantile domains had overlapped in Gaul and Spain for nearly two centuries at this point. 

Dou parmy ben may le scavoirn plen suet, neðan parolaurn—y caðarn a mission circoler par al-Hamid remane ja intradoit vars latin, e l'aïða nauganç cos imparsoubr.
At least two were entirely fluent writers, if not speakers—al-Hamid's book of circular functions was as yet untranslated in Latin and was an invaluable navigational aid.

Lor pres inacavabr es y magntud a humour sur y Cynthia sou al-Casmi figurar cant, posc sojornar ag vest lontanessem plausibr a alcun hom par toð y histoir d'humantað, i parvenoy cos final Moharram 924 un loy pres connuð.
So it is almost impossible to imagine the height of emotion on al-Casmi's Cynthia as, having travelled further west than anyone in quite possibly the history of humanity, it arrived at last in Muharram 924 somewhere almost familiar. 

Y ci racont seyon oïð dy cartograph des l'Occas Jagerrem sevent, y scourm najaurn lonc y rimmot vars y citað treborth de Sinquan.
Following the stories they heard of the map-makers from the Far West, the crew travelled along the coast to the port city of Sinquan.