230.1: Steeplepost Tapestry

notes in translation of a feat of engineering in nineteeth-century Mendeva [North America].

Y Tapeçment Campaner sta un icon intermanið de pieç murðon teil neir ben blanc e costroit ny citað caver Ambrojan, Aiga d'Angoixa.
The Steeplepost Tapestry was a screen of several myriad black or white tiles built in Ambrosia's capital city of Aiga d'Angoixa [~Quebec City].

Stant complið d'an 1820 eð instaurað oc l'un dell'area central ny citað surplombant, lo se cof inspiraçon des y sect (novel naðusc) dignant 'yarçment'.
Completed in 1820 and erected to overlook one of the city's central squares, it was inspired by the (fairly new) 'latticework' art movement.

Un objectif audaç cas y Tapeçment sta poðir con gran veloçtað depegnt d'occorrenç ostendar ec dragað par collocquour tras y païs, par mejan dy corrogaçon campaner a gonfan e lucern respant a mesur dy dezein nuverrem.
One ambitious goal for the Tapestry was to be able to portray journalist's sketches of events from across the country with great speed, using the flag-lamp steeplemesh infrastructure that had been built up over the last few decades.

Con tan l'oc deneu acavað veg monfeyað, y costregnç cas l'issar de tant moustr tramettr lonc l'accaç campaner lo coyençaurn de denir cojan.
Although this was achieved several times, the practical limitations of transmitting so much information by steeplepost prevented it from becoming routine.

Aglon, y tapeçment passau y majortað de sell'hour ne picq caum nonçaminal ben annonç administraçonnal despleyar par scrit e symbol sengr.
Instead, the majority of the tapestry's time was spent displaying short pieces of news or government messages in text and simple symbols.
