231.1: The Heir and the Spare - 2

continued translation from the beginning of [real-life] book The Henchmen of Zenda by KJ Charles, a 2018 pastiche of the 1894 romp The Prisoner of Zenda.

Y fraðr deneurn segr crescuð bogr amiablessem.
The brothers grew to manhood on no better terms.

Michael se cof y grad de Duc a Strelsau luy soupleyað dessur d'an sy quincein—Strelsau, l'oç caver meðes.
Michael had the title of Duke of Strelsau bestowed upon him at his fifteenth year—Strelsau, the capital itself.

Y veðr rey nolois ceu poðir sy faïscenç despleyar ovartessem, ma Rudolf remane heriter dy coroun.
The old king could scarcely have made his preference clearer, yet Rudolf was still heir to the crown.

L'enmigtað verimmous entr y fraðr no'r diminoit pall'oc tendençostað.
The bad blood between the brothers did not lessen over this partiality.

Ðe s'abatten. Ðe s'abatten por pedisecq, por alley, e por femn, tojorn femn.
They fought. They fought over servants, and allies, and women, always women.

Ða l'un desira un femn, se deye all'autr la posseïr—nell'ottem mont par meyan de seducçon (ke un cour ravir sta triomph maissem a un commant figr ben a forç issarr), ma ðe stan y prinç eð y duc, e Rudolf cos particuler poðe agir comoscon exact volois luy plagr.
If one wanted a woman, the other must needs have her—ideally by seduction (since to steal a heart was a greater triumph than to issue a command or to take by force), but they were the prince and the duke, and Rudolf in particular could do precisely as he chose.
