232.1: Vamncoury's Dichotomy

excerpt in translation from The Light that Casts a Thousand Shadows, a 2017 N work of pop history, economics and philosophy written by Ollamec Vamncoury and published by a subsidiary of the Peujon Rous (Russet Dove) writing guild.

Sy livr fay chronic dy doctrin se duellant sou nom d'Ubicqtað e Vecintað, dont l'enmigtað basfeyau bempart dy rix maissem par y siecr veint eð ec accougl y fondamen intermanent por y plurem de sect modern a noçon politic.
Her book chronicles the duelling ideologies of Ubiquity and Vicinity, whose rivalry defined many of the greatest conflicts of the twentieth century and which together form the basis for most modern schools of political thought.

Par sgart tauger, Ubicqtað signfey equaltað, pantachualtað eð uniformtað, interim Vecintað glorfey libertað, entauthaltað e diverstað.
In broad strokes, Ubiquity stands for equality, universalism and homogeneity, while Vicinity valourises liberty, localism and diversity.

Malgrað y haubrjorançastr d'administraçon divers, necun doctrin brouc un contingent innocendessem lon disputaçon.
Despite various administrations' propaganda, neither ideology holds the undisputed moral high ground.

Vecintað a ligaçon noncupað con y verdeyanç de lengaç comtaðer e coll'autonomy por frameð famigler noc costumner forgar;
Vicinity has been linked to the flourishing of regional languages and to the freedom to pursue nontraditional familial structures;

lo's par surcresc sarvið a y corporalleyaçon d'aujamat oðig paramontað gentic.
it has also been used to justify the formation of ghettos and even ethnostates.

Ubicqtað a entrposson fait vars doujug gradual redughent veram dessoclar sou nom de repisanç equalmenter a lucr e forç; 
Ubiquity has led to the toppling of truly oppressive hierarchies in the name of egalitarian redistribution of wealth and power;

lo's par surcresc agið a kynous ny cultur maugrfeyar eð a attendr a l'extirpar eç alcun dy magn vijon partejanneyað par directour noc quottant.
it has also marginalised and attempted to extirpate elements of society that do not fit into one of the many visions that leaders have propounded.
