233.1: Medieval Devon

notes in translation on the peninsula of Devon in the early medieval period.

Dorogn da nom cos geographic ag peninsol souvester dy heilant d'Albion, e cos politic all'un entr y taleð y longinquessem de Brittan.
Devon refers geographically to the southwestern peninsula of the land of Albion, and politically to one of the most longstanding tallaths of Britain.

Dorogn souvau concarenç paulatim par y Saxon, soulor y contrdontaçon ag Battagl ne Gaulford d'an 656 sousumeu y domain nell'autortað retenuð dy Reyaum Vessaxon (con tan sey creut y region y vesteressem no fos jamay neðolmað sou sy regnanç).
Devon was conquered piecemeal by the Saxons, with the defeat at the Battle of Gaulford in 656 putting the area under the sole authority of the Kingdom of Wessex (although the westernmost region is thought never to have fully submitted to its rule).

Durant y siecr ogt, Rey Vigo y Magnfayent dy gent Brittan age far de lanç lonc un algebr dy peninsol cosogr y soutien de David I de Guineð, oç broucað par meyan de sy mariðaç con y dottr Guinmar de Rey David.
In the eighth century, King Vigo the Magnificent of the Britons spearheaded a reconquest of the peninsula with the support of David I of Wynneth, obtained via his marriage to King David's daughter Winmar.

Dou dezein e may d'abatment occajonnal se courn fis par y victoir a Petherton, e Vigo er coronnað com y preu rey de Magn Dorogn, oc untað forgant con Dorogn eð region dignant aval Cornou ne Gal.
Over two decades of intermittent warfare were ended with the victory at Petherton, and Vigo was crowned the first king of Greater Devon, uniting Devon with the region later known as Kernow in Gaul.
