234.1: Portingale Plagued

notes in translation on the region of Portingale [Portugal, Galicia] in a three-century span.

Ant sy pouvlanç ec prepondrant lonc y rimot, Portingal se cof devastað cos tost e lon pietað par y Scon Gran Morenç nell'eç annað ne souc dell'yenç dy pest n'Europ d'an 1519N; un quinç entr y pouvlanç moroy pre fos y dezein passað.
With its population concentrated along the coast, Portingale was ravaged early and mercilessly by the Second Great Dying in the years following the plague's arrival in Europe in 1519N; one fifth of the population died within the decade.

Stove Vascony par forç cession fair de sell'eiðel Portingal (sy mojolon cas empory) vars Andalus posc un rig de cug militer durant y Rix Romannesc dy siecr settoç mejan.
Vascony was forced to cede its Portingale territory (its economic heartland) to Andalus after a series of military defeats during the Romantic Wars of the mid-seventeenth century, 

Portingal attenoy cos primer a agir com blisnot durant y Rix Democratic dy siecr ogtoç, e receveu cossy sceint un gran porçon de tegmnfeyour de var nell'oc epoc.
Portingale at first attempted to remain neutral during the Democratic Wars of the eighteenth century, and as such received a great number of war refugees in this period.

Interim, y quagment de Tossagnt d'an 1755N diminoy cos gra l'abiltað a traitment de Portingal; com issent sy veçin belligrman feirn envajon de Portingal pront apres.
However, the All-Saints' earthquake of 1755N severely weakened Portingale's position; as such its warring neighbours invaded Portingale soon after.
