30.1: The Early Tachygraph

extract in translation from Vitoria Queiros' 1998 quaterno Thirteen Inventions which Changed the World.

Interim, ny ci region la gent lou adoptan tostessem, y [tachygraph] surcourn carið cos stoniscent.
However, in those places where there was early adoption, the [tachygraph] proved astonishingly popular. 

Y ci region prepondran citað fort appopulað e domain urban aðoinç rapid souvant.
These were usually dense cities and urban areas undergoing rapid growth.

Ne Safford, com bustr, ja fornið con doujug fondaminal e starc d'accaçment, y joun Bourgmer Crawford surveilau l'instauration dy preu banc redirigent a ambit accacer.
In Safford, for example, which already had a robust postal infrastructure, the young Mayor Crawford oversaw the installation of the first redirection banks in post offices.

Y ci banc tarromoy y model cossy descreibr: un mission dað sera prefis con un scifr muncever (triant parmig, a Makerfell sta i MKF) parmettent ag zygomour d'y mission accaçar apar vars y bon ambit veciner, seut par un scifr majonner (normalisað aval com catr keren e soulor un lettr) eð ant l'eç scifr sceus y mission star tramis vars y bon machin.
These pioneered the system in which a given missive would be prepended with a borough code (for example, Makerfell's was MKF) allowing the switchers to send the message through to the correct local post office, followed by a house code (eventually standardised to four digits followed by a letter) whence the message could be transmit to the correct machine.