38.1: Scandal Abroad

excerpt in translation from an article in the 14th October 1950 edition of the Fiellas Dimenja (Sunday Sheets), a Marsellan weekly newspaper focusing primarily on recreation and entertainment. 

NOVEL ALLORS: SCANDAL! PRINÇ HASINIC ADMET 3⅊ MIL MURDON DEUT
NEWS AFIELD: SCANDAL! HASINICK PRINCE ADMITS 30⅊ MILLION OF DEBT

Prinç Peðer Tamaha, heir men connuð des y dynasty hasinic famous, a admis por y nonçamen trey mil murðon de pois deïr (oc dou mil myriad de tron surcontant) com sculd a colluy speculatour e tan a tesoir païsal tras y tarmagn des Mascic vars Ambrosia.
Prince Pether Tamaha, lesser-known son of the illustrious Hasinick monarchy, has admitted to the press that he owes thirty million poise (over twenty million trone) in debt to speculation companies and to national banks across the continent from Mashick to Ambrosia. 

Par surcresc, sy granpaðr y Rey a refusað le sauvar de decoxion, stant jainç a dað lon preluïscment.
Furthermore, his grandfather the King has declined to bail him out, in an unprecedented move.

Postulation jaçol es convencuð ig y joun prinç (oc ayent un jubilation opulent de nascenç trentem receut ny Davarn Heul fevruer nuverrem, ant may de cinq mil d'assistour) no's lon hiat sy redon despardent eð y scurtað dell'askouð parent confiant.
Longtime speculation has held that the young prince (who hosted a lavish thirtieth birthday celebration in the Davarn Heul this February, with over five thousand attendees) has been regularly running through his funds and relying on his family's coffers.