4.1: Rise of the Stadbund

excerpted in translation from David Huhn's 1923 textbook Stadstahten: Sichrer Haven, a treatise on the role of independent trade cities in the development of mercantilism, published with funding from the Lunburg Schazhaus.

Y mençon ig remaneus un Empir Theudesc fo sevelið ne grauf jos y cadavr dy preu Reyaum Saxon, l'eiðel y dynasty Hougbrocken appartenent stant diminoit vars lourell'eðegl fondominal amont ne Lepzi e Magdebourg.
The fiction of a surviving German Empire was laid to rest with the corpse of the first Kingdom of Saxony, with the domain of the Hoghbrocken dynasty reduced to their core lands upstream in Lepzi and Magdeburg. 

Y nou-redoit Marcgrau Baldr de Saxony, temporane no stant for catr annað eld, cou cos comprensibr par megl manouvr dy Stadbond smargent.
The newly-reduced Margrave Baldur of Saxony, being only 4 years old at the time, was understandably outmanœuvred by the nascent Stadbund.

Ma y ci polity-colluy nommað com y Stadbund, y Samslutning ben y Collijon Norðer cascun (nos veim usual ne scaunç latin collisio theodisc) creurn noc, lon digr, ex nihilo all'aubon dy siecr catorç.
But the guild-states known variously as the Stadbund, the Samslutning or the North Collision (we see in Latin documents usually collisio theodisc) did not, of course, appear fully-formed at the dawn of the fourteenth century. 

Nos poum y racin de concort entr citað deut, peðaç eð autr parsoument coyençant furtivir jusc y siecr doç tost.
We can trace the roots of intercivic contracts restricting tariffs, tolls and other fees back to the early twelfth century.