41.1: A Baptism of Fire

excerpt in translation from A Baptism of Fire: Christianity and the Graven, written by Agata Naziunas and published in 1988 by Leidéiai Givatés.

Ant captanç particuler scey y ducað carniol, oc cos remarcabr y citað abondant de Veron gournant, tan eð eiðel uvrautr austessem.
Of particular interest is the duchy of Crain, which importantly controlled the prosperous city of Verona, as well as fertile lands further east.

Ig i declarau sy promotion dy Papacy Roman er plausibr nastiðessem des faibiltað a des farvour religious vray, ma toð cas final l'aye un eðegl parfait por contriboir ag Batesm dy Norð.
Their declaration in support of the Roman Papacy was likely more pragmatic than out of true religious fervour, but in any case they were perfectly positioned to contribute to the Baptism of the North.

Degnant ig l'Ordr de Sagnt Hemma all'Aug Calm (y Convey Australier) fosn y Batesm condugnt con soutien moneðer de Taxon a Hongary par dezein plusour, sou contingent dy Secession German denoy y Batesm un accommission prement.
Though the Order of Saint Hemma of Still Water (the Convoy Australier) had been leading the Baptism with monetary backing from Taxon of Hungary for several decades, it is in the context of the German Secession that the Baptism became an urgent project.

Con Hermene II stant un novel pap totalistessem, sceye hougr ig Augsbourg sceus heresy respandr rapidessem a vel Rom y Norð parvenir.
Along with a new, more totalist Pope in Hermeneus II, it was feared that Augsburg might spread heresy faster than Rome could reach the North.