51.1: 19th Lexember

quondar "lurk"

quondar /kwɔnˈdar/ [kwʊnˈdɑː]
- lie in wait, lurk, to hide while waiting to ambush or simply accost someone;
- be on the lookout, keep watch, to remain fully aware of one's surrounding in waiting for something particular to happen;
- lurk, loiter, hang out, to wait around a location without drawing attention to oneself

Etymology: from Old Boral quondar, covondar, acquondar et al. "lie in wait, prepare to ambush", appearing to reflect an unattested Vulgar Latin verb *accupābundō from *accupābundus "lurking, hiding, watching animals". This is a confused form influenced by the verbs aucupor "I catch birds or bees" and occupō "I occupy, seize, anticipate" (compare Cambrick achup "save, rescue").

Nos som quondant ag loub cant i se caf tos.
/nɔz sɔm kwɔnˈdant ɛj lub kant i se kaf tɔz/
[nʊˈsɔm kwʊnˈdant ɛj lub kant i se kaf tɔz]
1p be.1p lurk-p.prs at-def arcade as 3s rfl get trim.p.pst
We're loitering at the shops while he has a haircut.

---

excerpt in translation from the diaries of Nadàlla fi Carol, who grew up in sixteenth-century Santrafew in the early days of New Provence.

Sceye ja ancour un querel ac con Dembro e sy scourm a cimter cas y recostroinç dy naf posc ig l'un dy muðel souvau sfondranç l'an derran.
There has been yet another argument with Dembro and his masons over the reconstruction of the nave after one of the buttresses failed last year.

Y fastig provisour ne bosc pin es parcevibr auvorn, e des l'argument entr Paðr e Dembro l'es menað vars digr y motif senglessem vel ig nos descenau certan pieç dy pieðry deur y cost surveunt e cossy forniscau y naf con fastig for ne bosc.
The temporary pine roofing has been rather noticeable, and Father's talks with Dembro have led him to believe the simplest thing would be to take down some of the stonework from the surviving side and give the nave a fully wooden roof.

L'oc idea aye apen pagrmen encostað pre toll'aucoum ediculat ern tijon svingant, e soulor Zocala venoy aval de sy ci acraç ne moscon por y preu veg dell'oc annað.
This idea had barely been set to parchment before the ediculate crowd were up in arms, and Zocala came downriver from her acreages by moshone [canoe] for the first time all year.

Alcun de nous ayen ja y novel marið vis, sauf Paðr cant y nuçal gournar, ma Zocala sta soul l'oc veg.
None of us have yet seen the new husband, except Father for the wedding, but she was this time alone.