58.1: The First Drengot Empire

excerpt in translation from reference quire A Mapbook Compendium of Europe, from the Division of Rome until the German Secession (450–1250 N), published by the Tommarth Open School of History in 1997.

Ma lon digr alcun nell'Empir Constant noncupað ayen tan autonomy com Cornou e Dorogn, eç ayent ny siecr amont y hagr vital contriboit por y concarnç norman de Cantuer.
But of course none were more independent in the so-called Constant Empire than Kernow and Devon, who a century earlier had been vital to the Norman conquest of Kent.

Cos vray, ne 1121 y Rey Vigo de Magn Dorogn vole Cambry gazovar lon approu ben soutien dell'Emperour Roger II.
Indeed, in 1121 King Vigo of Greater Devon would attack Wales without the support of Emperor Roger II.

Roger II passau y bempart de sy regn a Paris, ant ig sy fraðr postir Matheu regna por gra de luy a Londr.
Roger II spent most of his reign in Paris, with his younger brother Matthew ruling in his name in London.

Je 1120, largeç des y tesoir dell'empir er ja spent a fin oc y tarm lonc auster contr Willemy defendr.
By 1120, much of the empire's treasury had been spent on defending the long eastern border with Willemy.

Cos particuler, y costroinç d'un novel Gran Castel a Vesonçon fo complið l'an amont, stant y pognt final n'un rig costojal y lign entr Flandr eð y Montagn Alpin afferjarant.
In particular, the construction of a new Great Castle at Vesonçon had been completed the year before, the last point in a defensive line spanning from Flanders to the Alps.