60.1: Malice Aforethought

excerpt in translation from The Varied Benefits of Malice Aforethought (published originally in Sharrovian Borlish as Maleç Prefigurað e Toll'Advantaç Den), a 2001 trevold by first-time author Frougðr Onçala.

Caye un crevoscr affreidant je Avril joun eð y ci residu final de stað ern gliðant apart con un bris fresc de harvest.
It was a chilly evening in early April, the last remnants of summer finally drifting away on a crisp autumn breeze.

Cos exact y gendr a crevoscr volois Laum faïr passar cas luy ne sy randy quemant tacquaveyan nell'autranç compliscent affignt an scaunç deut a edition je l'aubon ados,
Exactly the type of evening Laum would have preferred to spend in his cosy Tacquave apartment putting the finishing touches on an article due for edition the next morning,

ben parcanç jolleint an tarn beçon scencant con sy colleg por un je nascenç ben munganç jubilar—ben l'explanation doujugher calscon por lembic consumir.
or perhaps out at a bar getting drinks with his coworkers to celebrate a birthday or anniversary—or whichever flimsy excuse for alcohol consumption.

Aglon, l'er aziant n'un manoir a Kevig scaunt dy deshormejanç poll'indrec carið d'un dynast quidam.
Instead, he was in a mansion in Kevig covering the launch of some dynast's pet charity.

L'oc gendr a narrað nel Laum cos usual scaur den, ma Jale Fylaver aye frith a coup se caut e pres luy kestar por y martel prendr.
Not the sort of story Laum usually covered, but Jale Fylaver had come down with flu and practically begged him to take the reins.