65.1: The Thousandfold Fateling

    extract in translation from 1949 trevold Den Tusynfold Spoatling (later published in Borlish under the title L'Ivan a Doum Murðon "The Child with Ten Thousand Destinies"), written by established children's author Viola Toft.

Ny reyaum catrem, y gran castel sorgent com un casner deur y citað ag mar jonc sta vert.
In the fourth kingdom, the great castle rising like an oak from the city on the reed-sea was green.

Y pieðr dy cost heilander stan covart de mos pille, tandic y bris saler cola sur yarç boscer yeðrot portant.
The stones of the land side were covered in thick moss, while the salt breeze streamed over trellises of ivy.

Y fenestr meðes lughen con veðr zajadau ag colour—neðan y clartað—de smaraud.
Even the windows glittered with jackdaw glass the colour—if not the clarity—of emeralds.

A starn dy mur citaðer naja cos lent y gamblas de sy paðr lonc y canal argent sceint just con y rout leyað, trencant a biasc cos artificial par y mersc paneller.
Outside the city walls her father's barge proceeded slowly along the silver canal which ran parallel to the raised road, cutting at an unnatural angle through the patchwork fenland.

Vray, jusc oy ern il passaç faint de tal tardiscenç ig ða y costoscment ern porsief lour dant lor il voloisn ja certan star attegnt eð oncað alcheðr vars Tisholm.
In fact, they had been making such slow progress that if the authorities were pursuing them they would surely already have been caught and dragged back to Tisholm.