66.1: The "Metric" System

from Handbook of Natural Theory, by Jason Ridley and others, published 1967 by the Lincun Collegiate Editors.

Cas y mesur 'degm' noncupað er tandem l'axiom de se sarvent d'un los soul par casc quantað compromis, e retenuð ern pie e lau y dou ne benoç com mesur a tagl sengr.
The so-called 'dime' measures eventually compromised the principle of having a single base for each quantity, and retained both the foot and the league as primary measures of length.

Y pie er normalisað cos quidam naðusc stant y mojol entr dou mesur un picq pog inequal: y "pie romannesc" eð y "paum accenser" cathayan.
The foot was standardised somewhat arbitrarily as the midpoint of the very slightly discrepant "Roman foot" and the Cathayan "surveyor's span" [≈3dm].

Y lau, stant jusc oy irruniscablessem meðes tras Europ ag pie, ern fis a plaç d'un murðon a pie;
The league, which had been even less consistent across Europe than the foot, was fixed at ten thousand feet [≈3km];

y mesur cas ustol y "migl" vole cavir inclus parmy y mesur degm com cinq mil pie, ben un demy a lau.
the traditional measure of the "mile" would be folded into the dime measures as five thousand feet, or half a league.

L'oc contingent es autrað alcant soul dagormay, candon y pie (e cossy scient y lau) se cou un redefinition ne 1946 por ig y veloçtað normal œ tey cos exact deg gran lau par second.
This state of affairs has changed only once since, with the redefinition of the foot (and therefore the league) in 1946 setting the normal speed [the speed of light] œ to precisely ten great leagues per second.