78.1: Decline of Feudaliam

excerpt in translation from the condensed study materials for the New Vithor course Concurrence History of the 16th Century: Death, Ships and the Movement of the Heavens.

L'ustol es y model feudal stimar defonct cos enter posc 1550 N, ben toð cas deur polity insoler com Borgogn eð Avry.
It is usual to consider the feudal system entirely defunct by 1550 N, at least outside of insular polities like Burgundy and Awry.

Soumis son un diverstað a mejan por l'oc dissolution expondr; creudessem orruð certain parmy a ci autr.
A variety of reasons for this collapse have been suggested; some are more widely accepted than others.

Mout soumont is un tramou de labour sarver deut ag Scon Gran Morrenç, abiltant ig ci païsan ayent survecuð flagitn contingent dijarblessem de lorry segnour.
Often cited is a labour shortage of serfs due to the Second Great Dying, allowing those peasants who remained to demand more favourable conditions from their lords.

L'oc es tesmognað par y conjogntur parceut entr diminution de pouvlanç e liberalisation (tan com hastous alcot a y clas entrpos smargent creut).
This is evidenced by the correlation observed between population loss and liberalisation (as well as how quickly the nascent middle class grew).

Com bustr, Istr Boral sou Joseph III pardoy may a carant murðon gent, un sont de sy pouvlanç;
For example, Borland under Joseph III lost over forty myriad people, one-seventh of its population;

sarvaç (deja a pognt d'exeunt fair) er abolið cas ley d'an 1564 N, ma ant l'ig hour yent i n'er existant veraçter sull'istr tras un generation.
serfdom (already on its last legs) was legally abolished in 1564 N, but by that point it had not de facto existed on the island for a generation.