79.1: The Welsh Viking

excerpt in translation from scitation questions in the January 2014 Tremonnow Open School concurrence history course 844–900: Early Dane Kingdom-Building across the Northwestern Isles.

(i) Deut ag ci havan stapr e ci instançment dannesc entr Dublin e Yorvic, ben ceter, aye y principaltað ne Guineð meyon suffignt por primaltað sur Poves condensar? Souvin ne soumoin y porçonment de Mondovel stant concordað entr Guineð e Sodric, oc stant tesmognað cos parey ny chronic d'Oltogn e de Carleul.
(i) Was it because of the Dane wayports and settlements between Dublin and Yorwick that the principality of Wynneth had the resources to consolidate primacy over Powes? Include reference to the partition of Mondwell [Anglesey] agreed between Wynneth and Sodrick, as mentioned in both the Ulstre and Carlile chronicles.

(ii) Dell'asc vecuð d'Owain ap Blethen—luy rent legender com Ovan de Jolliad, l'amig stival eð enmig yemal por y çaucr arthuric—cal poum nos savir de mout alcot segr cambresc de nascenç ern droughant de gazou viking tandic y fragossau dannesc denen kintaðessem con lorry vecintað?
(ii) What can the life of Owain ap Blethen—rendered into legend as Owen of Jolliad, sometime-friend sometime-foe of the Arthurians—tell us about the extent to which Welsh-born men participated in viking raids as the Dane settlements became more enmeshed with their vicinities?

(iii) Descreyað ant detagl toll'actour connuð abord dy Reconcarnç a Castr d'an 887 N, tan con y contingent politic yon cascun parmy se troven eç ayent menað vars y faction idiosyncras y battagl parlocant.
(iii) Describe in detail the known actors party to the Reconquest of Chestre in 887 N, along with the political context each found themselves in which led to the idiosyncratic alliances on either side of the battle.