86.1: Letter to the Editor

excerpt in translation from the collected correspondence of Michæl Bervisson (17th June 1799–12th January 1849), political historian and social reformist. This exceprt is from a letter to his editors concerning proposed alterations to his magnum opus Roma Æternal: Eç Vascel a These (An Eternal Rome: Ships of Theseus).

Dovem, m'ajoutabr vel improbation redirigir tan com sera parcanç nos prevenibr (cos particuler l'un bougr aquilin nolent my plum teurfiar) eð y ci argument refutar cos direct ny scrit.
Second, I would like to divert as much criticism as we might possibly anticipate (in particular one aquiline fellow who shall not sully my quill) and rebut those arguments directly in the text.

Nell'oc spien, posseu nos y capparol Caf Jammel prolongar por caglou irrayar a comoscon l'Empir Constant drengoçan all'ovest eð y Roman malchassian all'aust y dou issaroirn y Cligs (tras y siecr derran yon unið) por lorry pretension vars continuitað con Rom basfiar?
To this end, might we extend the chapter Twin Keys to emphasise the ways both the Drengotian Constant Empire to the west and the Malchassian Romans to the east used the Church (in the last century of its unity) to support their claims to continuity with Rome?

Jo vil aïr toð y fougl recas pre Reveglon, jo vos aiç.
I shall have written the requisite pages by Revillon, I assure you.

Vacilleð bogr pre respondr jug; Scholer Michæl Bervisson.
Do not hesitate to reply forthwith; Professor Michæl Bervisson.