90.1: London in the "Good Game" period

question and marking advice in translation from the Dijon New School 2019 Concurrence History scitation paper "Family, Tradition and Language: the Changing Culture of the Good Game Decades"

Descorrir sull'ort dy Magl Urban Novel e sur lorry sousunçon ny Collujon, ant caglou irrayant all'aðoinç de Londr lonc y traiscnant dell'epoc d'Atelier Mondial.
Discuss the rise of the New Urban Mesh and their subsumption into the Collusion, with emphasis on the growth of London following the Global Workshop period. 

Cos tranquessem, comparaçon fair dy racont de lorry benoç de spionnaç all'Aust por gournment dirigir lonc asmuth san cas commarç con y realtað plausibr.
In particular, compare the popular account of their use of espionage in the East to steer politics in tradewise-beneficial directions with the likely reality.

Valour dar ag postion d'emphas sur y droug d'orðenjanç marin e cos particuler sur y cavibiltað de carbon por y commarç Urban basfiar.
Give credit for emphasising the role of maritime technology and especially access to coal in supporting the Urban trade.

Respos carr ci mostrant ig y stuðant es eið doutr a for y lasc d'an 1968 "Sr Desarden, Prinç Nuçal" sgardar; ig l'es aglon suet ag mesur dy seucq de James Desarden nell'Adminstration Muncever cos equal pre sell'ascreuçon a Nacon Day e posc y scandal d'an 1887 y dou.
Look for responses which prove that the student has done more than watch 1968 film “Mr Desarden, Prince Consort”; that they are actually familiar with James Desarden's career in the City Administration both before his assignment to Nackon Day [Thailand] and after the scandal of 1887.