97.1: tenguð "bauble"

tenguð /tɛnˈgɪθ/ [tɪŋˈgɪh]
- bauble, gaud, ornament, something showy used to decorate;
- trinket, trifle, tat, something small and inexpensive

Etymology: 18C Borlish, clipped from Sant Enguð "Saint Angith", a canonised medieval abbess from Sothbar on Borland. In the late medieval period her pilgrimage site was associated with freely-offered figurines and pieces of embroidered fabric.

Tenguð lousc jaint penoirn dy ci ranscel.
/tɛnˈgɪθ lux ʒent peˈnɔirn̩ di tsi ranˈxɛl/
[tɪŋˈgɪh lux ˈʝen pɪˈnɔ.jɐn] dɪˈtsi ʀɐɲˈçɛl]
bauble gleam cast-p.prs hang-pst-3p from-df p.dt branch
Glittering baubles hung from the branches.

---

DNA in the 18th century

    excerpt in translation from the 1998 scholastic quire Sviluppi in Philosophia dal Periodo Revitalisto by historical deixist Jovanna Ariperto.

Desselut ratiocinau ig exist un lengaç vital (parmy sy scaunç a luy i le nommau y Parol Divin) present ny ci casel dy corp.
Desselut inferred the existence of a vital language (in her own writing she called it the Divine Word) present in the cases of the body.

Rumour tardessem noc obstroint, plausibr no's ig i stimaus l'oc lengaç hebreu a verb, con tan l'exponois comport plusour ne sell'edition.
Despite later rumours, she probably did not believe this language was literally Hebrew, although she made several analogies in her publications.

D'an 1770 y preu livr se descreint sceint er scaut par un scrittour lon nom e lor condonað vars l'Universtað ne Houlm.
In 1770 the first real self-describing book was written by an anonymous author and donated to the University of Hulm.

L'universtað a y livr facsimilað alcant sur y quadrennial cos exact largecer com possibr, e l'original, a cost y scavr y nuverrem, es sgardabr nell'edifiç la dell'Andron a Heredtatur.
The university has duplicated the book once every four years in as exact a way as possible, and the original, alongside the most recent copy, may be viewed in their Department of Heredity building.