103.5: Making History

shortform scitation questions lifted from the 2021 edition of the Tremonnow Open School's domain history course 'Making History', which covers the process by which events and people are compiled into historical narratives.

(questions given approximately in order of complexity)

1. Which 14th-century historian first referred to the First Drengot Empire of three centuries earlier as the 'Constant Empire' in an attempt to link it to the District of Constantius (the unrelated part of the fourth-century Diocletian Tetrarchy ruling over Roman Brittania and Gaul)?

2. Name three international conflicts (not including the First German War) which took place during the 'Long Peace' period, here defined as lasting from 1770 until 1815.

3. Who wrote 1872 work 'An Incomplete Dictionary of the New London'? As the crowning example from the Futurism period of parachthon romance, it contains the first attestation of 'slate' for a screen displaying information, along with what other lasting coinages?

4. During which decades of the twentieth century did the Portingale Anarchy take place? Which legal developments of the prior years were abruptly reversed as a result of the breakdown of state control?

5. Compare the stability of the Christian states in the Holy Land before and after the Failed Crusade in the early thirteenth century. Which organisation had their authority over Antioch and Port Simon revoked by Pope Just in 1208, thus saving them from said debacle?

6. The Deviance movement has been credited with contributing to the decline of the Modest Arrangement through the first half of the nineteenth century, particularly in Gaul and Spain. To what extent is this narrative supported by the evidence?