104.5: An Authorial Assortment

brief references for some writers previously mentioned in my worldbuilding notes.

Olexi Harchenko (fl. c19) was a Zahid Russian [1] author from the city of Boxa [~Novi Sad, Serbia]. He wrote the widely-translated mystery work Разгадто (Dénouement), whose title was borrowed into Italian as rasgatto "resolution, unravelling of a mystery", and from there into many European languages.

Thoffina'h Girmont (fl. 2005) is a British author who wrote Arthurian romance Y Ðreic o Redrɯth (The Dragon of Redrouth). The book is loosely based on the old tales codified in eleventh-century England (and reworked in post-Imperia Wales), but owes much more to the ahistorical reimaginings of the Long Peace [~1800] period.

Heudar Fiðaut (fl. c14) was a Borlish writer who is an important source of vernacular Middle Borlish texts. His most famous work is Catreðejnt Lagrem (Twenty-four Laments); his works together contain many first attestations of Borlish words (for example, graçant "merciful").

Tanasio Capretti (fl. 1970) was a theologian and humanist at the University of Florence. He wrote sociological work L'Inclusion Deviante di Conti Polari (The Deviance Incorporation of Folk Tales) to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the 1850 Laic Declarations of Belgrade, a landmark accord for secular governance in many polities.

Yollamaniza Elcabir (fl. 1943) was a Mashick [~Mexican] author and one-time spy. He wrote the spycraft novel La te Hozuho Sineton (No Slumber Will Seize Him) in 1943 partly based on his own experiences, in the aftermath of the Lovac Wars and the bombing of his home city of Moshtar [~San Francisco]. His writings were revealing enough that governments across Gulf Mendeva [Mexico Gulf states] issued warrants for his arrest.

---

[1] A Slavic ethnic group present in the northern Balkans and descended from westward-migrating immigrant communities.