107.5: Grimmers

A grimmer (Merch /ˈgɾɪ.mə/, Borlish grimmour /gʀɪˈmuʀ/), formerly and formally an augrimmer, is a device that can be given methods to carry out sequences of arithmetic or logical operations. These methods enable grimmers to perform a wide range of tasks. Grimmers are the substrate of the pistol mesh, which links together billions of such devices.

Calculating devices from the earliest abaci prefigure the grimmer, but its true potential (the ability to perform essentially arbitrary computation, given the correct instructions) arose from theoretic discussions on the possibility of self-replication. In the eighteenth-century, Rachel Desselut argued that in order for living matter to duplicate, its "Form" must contain a readable "Method" describing its construction. In this way she predicted the form-method separation essential to modern grimmer operation.

Etymology

The word grimmer is a clipping of augrimmer, literally "one who calculates, one who performs mathematical computation"; the word referred to a profession until the mid-twentieth century. This derives from noun augrim "computation, calculation", which originally meant "calculation using Arabic numerals" in particular, and which was a loan via French augrisme from Medieval Latin algorismus. This reflects the name of Persian mathematician al-Khwarismi, whose works introduced the positional number system to Europe.

References

Parable of the Mute Bookbinder, 1743 philosophical treatise by noblewoman Rachel Desselut

The Grimmer Hall: Developments in Early Methodics, 1999 scholastic quire written by New Leudong historian and methodist Cai Sonquo during his tenure at the University of Mehannin