108.5: Tommarth

Tommarth (Merch /ˈta.məθ/) is the capital and largest city of Markland. It had a population of over 5 million people by the year 2010. The dialect of Merch spoken by many in Tommarth is widely considered a standard to emulate.

The area was settled by the Angles in the sixth century; by the ninth it had become the primary city of the nascent Merch Kingdom. It was fortified significantly over the next centuries in defence against the Welsh to the west and then against the Danes to the East.

By the modern day Tommarth has an extensive underground rail system known locally as the Dusker, with stops including Kibbrough and Cathedral.

Toponymy

The city takes its name from the Tome river on which it stands. Formerly (before the modern spelling reform) spelt Tomwarth, the local area was known in Old English as Tomworðig "enclosure, field by the Tome."

Institutions

D'Aumesty Tellard Guild (fl. 1849), organisation of cartographers
Lady Maud Orchestra (fl. 1976), professional group of musicians receiving public funding

Royal Tommarth Castinghouse (fl. 1930), publisher of nonfiction which once held great cachet but latterly of no particular merit
Tommarth Open School of History (fl. 1997), known for publishing reference works

Tommarth University (fl. 1976), oldest institution of higher education in the city

People

Laurent Burnows (fl. 2010), author of children's fiction including beloved series Back to Front

Anna Highwater (fl. 1930), nonfiction author collaborating with her husband

Ralph Highwater (fl. 1930), nonfiction author collaborating with his wife

Morency Rivellerson (fl. 1976), clavierman and author of music textbooks