114.5: On the Bookshelf

In Sickness and in Health: Medicine in pre-Arnoutszen Europe is a quire chronicling the development of medical practice in Europe from antiquity until the time of physician Laurz Arnoutszen in the sixteenth century (the adoption of whose techniques constituted a sea-change in the effectiveness of medicine). It was written by Andrew Knowles in the mid-twentieth century. It was published in Kent by Winchester Scholastic Primers in multiple editions; the second edition was released in 1961 with a foreword by Dr Laura Norris, a lecturer in Heredity at Canterburgh University.

New Skies, Old Stories (originally published in Provincial French as Novè Cial, Anzan Conte) is a work of popular history detailing the origins of the various threads of parachthon fiction. It was written by Simon d'Estiala and published by Prindor Marsillès in 1980. Its thesis is that many of the tropes often considered to have been invented by particular parachthon authors are in fact simply examples of existing tropes used in new settings.

Men in Black (originally published in Parisian French as Hommes en Noir: une Étoire d'Espionnage) is a layperson's account of the history of spycraft across the world. It was written by Agathe Bisset and published by Paris University Editions in 2003.

The Alphabetical Albion is an encyclopaedia of the political history of Albion. It was written by a consortium of authors including Lucas Osborne and published by Winchester Scholastic Primers in 1920. The book organises itself into twenty-six sections, one for each letter of the English alphabet in order, with varying levels of contortion required to justify the conceit. Headings include "F: The Wars of Fealty", "Q: Unanswered Questions" and "X: The Necessity of Xenia".