116.5: Kernovan Conjuring

The Kernovan Conjuring (Borlish Conjuraçon Cornovan /ˌkɔɲ.ʒɪˈrants ˌkɔr.noˈvan/) was a collaboration between the Kingdom of Greater Devon and Roger Drengot, Duke of Normandy to press the Duke's claim to the throne of Kent. This plot is considered the proximate cause for the creation of the First Drengot Empire across Gaul [France] and southern Albion [Great Britain].

The Conjuring was carried out in 1029, following the death of King Rodulf of Kent. Kent under the long-reigning Rodulf had prospered, with recognised supremacy over the rump Wessex (albeit not uncontested by Devon) and over Essex to the north. After eight decades of political manoeuvring, Rodulf lingered on his deathbed and the succession was deeply uncertain.

Although no references to a written treaty have survived, it is presumed that the House of Kernow aided Normandy in their bid for the Kentish throne in exchange for support in becoming the new ruling dynasty of Greater Devon. This bargain was upheld, but it only took a couple of decades for Greater Devon to become a vassal of the First Drengot Empire.

In what was either impressive long-term strategy or merely opportunism, the victorious Roger of Normandy would go on to conquer Kent's neighbours, including Essex and Markland, and then venture south to annex much of the rest of Gaul. He was crowned Emperor Roger I in the midst of this territorial expansion in 1038.

The recently-unified Wales under Cadwallan (erstwhile King of Wynneth) managed to remain mostly free of Drengot control. This was likely achieved by steering a course between Greater Devon and the Drengot, neither of whom wanted to other to have dominion over Wales.