12.5: Linguistic Exam Questions

from the 1990 edition of collected sample scitation papers for the University of Lester's Faculty of Domain History, an academic group who, due to the university's well-funded Faculty of Language, has a strong leaning towards language-related studies, including palaeography and comparative mythology.

…which presaged the collapse of the First Drengotian Empire [1]. Discuss:
(i) the role of fourteenth-century compendium The Tales of Enfield Wood in codifying the divergent folklore interpretations of the Farmer Duke and his Masked Band,
(ii) the growing separation between the Merch and Kentish tongues as evidenced by the vocabulary attested in this compendium, and
(iii) the extent to which the traditional identification of this work's author with John of Yare (most known for having written historical account The Great Dying) can be justified.

Question 5 (thirty minutes)
Argue either in favour of or in opposition to any two of the following theses.

(i) The word for 'silver' is of uncertain origin—words referring to the substance having been borrowed between languages for millennia via extensive trade networks. The most likely origin of the word (cf. Lithowan sudrabs, Hausan 'asrvae, Vask zirar) as a trade-word is in ancient Acadian 𒀫𒁍𒌝 (surpum).
(ii) Usage of Sinic runes soundwise, a practice in certain names and other words of foreign origin since antiquity and seen in neighbouring polities (cf. early maniocan script) from the seventh century N, gains currency in Cathay during…

---

[1] A polity of the eleventh and twelfth centuries formed from the protracted union of several states, to wit Normandy, France, Burgundy, Kent, Greater Devon, Markland and York.