120.5: Borland before Borlish

excerpt from Borland before Borlish (Istr Boral pre Borallesc), a history textbook published in 1983 though the New Vithor University.

…discussion of the Kelt peoples who lived on Borland before the Roman conquests of the Flavian period is limited by our lack of written sources. The few inscriptions we do have are mostly translations of placenames and the names of tribes in Roman sources, appearing since the onset of diplomacy and trade with Rome since Julius Caesar's expeditions to Britannia in the first century aN.

One important exception is the name the Borland Kelts appear to have used collectively to distinguish themselves from the Britons: the Bora Ale. There has been speculation for centuries that the name Borrhaloi (which the Greek explorer Pytheas gives alongside Bretannike, and which became Latin Borālēs) is of Kelt origin, and not merely a derivative of Greek Βορρᾶς "the North Wind, the North". The 1932 unearthing at the Livaucr site of a burial marker reading IANTUMOR ABONDUU ALE "Jantumarus of the Abonduvii" proved that ales (pl. alē, cognate with Welsh ail "second", Latin alius "other") was used locally to mean "people, tribe".

Hence, Bora Ale is reconstructed as meaning "people of the East", with bora(g) "East, sunrise" corresponding to Welsh bore "morning" and Irish márah "tomorrow". It may even have originated as a exonym applied by the Britons, which would explain the hypothesised sense development of a word which originally meant "others".

Of course, the Borland Kelts did not always conceive of themselves as an indivisible group, and over a dozen tribal names are attested…