122.5: Vascon Ascendancy

    collected notes on the period of Western European history known as the Vascony Ascendancy.

The Vascon Ascendancy (Vascon: L'Ascendença Vasconna; Vask: Igualdea Vascoina) refers to the polity of Vascony from the early fifteenth century until the late sixteenth. At this time it enjoyed a territorial maximum due to several successful military conquests, as well as a general increase in prosperity.
Image

(Vascony, 1456 N)

The beginning of the Ascendancy is usually placed at the start of the reign of Ambrose II, who was crowned in 1410. His reign was marked by a succession of wars, both west into northern Portingale (taking all of Galice and even down to Braga), and east into Burgundy (taking the wealthy coastal regions of Tolose and Provence).

Ambrose III "the Ascendant" (for whom the period was retrospectively named) succeeded his grandfather in 1456. He established the New Navarre Enterprise two years later, an expanded merchant fleet with the dual aims of monopolising the trade of North Atlantic fish through the Middlesea and of creating trade ports down the western coast of Africa. This led to greatly increased fishing activity, and it was Vask ships travelling north past Valland [Greenland] that encountered Brasil [Newfoundland] in the 1471 Novomundine Landfall.

Trade with the Novomund, especially once the far more favourable southern route was discovered, enriched Vascony and especially the port towns in Portingale and Leon. Cities flourished, and there was also an outpouring of new artistic techniques from painting to poetry.

The Ascendancy is by most accounts over by the War of the Two Queens in the second half of the sixteenth century. By this time the land of both Portingale and Provence had been lost and the polity was reduced to its heartland. Furthermore, the Second Great Dying killed almost one in seven people in Vascony (although immigration was high enough to offset the loss of population by 1550).
Art

    I am Ambrose (Sou Ambroxo), a 1923 film in Portingale by director Agochino, which is a character study of King Ambrose the Ascendant through his long life.
    The Ascendant (Hwn a Guodoð), a 1934 film in Welsh by director Dormaget, which chronicles in particle the years immediately after the 1471 Novomundine Landfall.lm in Welsh by director Dormaget, which chronicles in particle the years immediately after the 1471 Novomundine Landfall.