124.5: Who's Who (1700s Edition)

    collected notes on various figures active during the eighteenth century.

Raymond al Mustafa (fl. 1750) was a mathematician and philosopher. He was resident for some time in Barcelon under the Duke of Aragon's patronage. During this time he corresponded with fellow theorist Rachel Desselut, and their letters outline some of the concepts that would go on to define the field of methodics.

He spent his latter years travelling, eventually settling in Brasil [Newfoundland]. His grandson Fabian Mostàf became an eminent astronomer at the Paratzon Observatory, using mathematical techniques developed in part by Raymond (like the waveform display [Fourier transform] to compute celestial orbits).

-

Marian Siegert ~ Miller (1725–56) was the illegitimate daughter of Elias Villingen, second Duke of Far Suebia [~a region west of Swabia]. She grew up at the ducal seat in Castle Carlsfeld as a recognised bastard, and was close with the Duke's younger legitimate children. She married Albert Siegert, a merchant in leather and a magnate of the shoemaking industry, at the age of eighteen, and moved with him to Lepzi [Leipzig].

From her regular correpondence with her half-brother Thomas she is known to have learnt to speak Burgund as a child and Bohamish [Czech] as an adult. With Albert she had several children, the eldest of whom would become the pioneering author Elsebeth Sneider.

-

Lord Mathurin Carrow, Baron of Ebbasham [Epsom] (fl. 1763) was a traveller who published accounts of his journeys. He is remembered in particular for his mealbooks which compile recipes from the places he visited.

An early work of his, A Complete Assembly of the Towns and Cities of Markland for the Edification of the Good Food Amateur, was popular across the Northwestern Isles [Britain, Ireland and Borland] (the Borlish translation being infamously inaccurate) but failed to sell further afield. Later volumes like An Account of the Vittles of the Various German Peoples and On the Sundry Uses of the Shadome Fruit [tomato] were far more enduring, being republished several times even after his death.