127.5: Deadly Disasters

notes on the subject of various (alt) historical disasters.

The Great Flie Flood was a natural disaster in 1171 Willemy which submerged or swept through large parts of Frisland. Inflowing waters of the Rustig Strait created the island of Texel, and the freshwater Lake Almere (which fed into the Strait along the Flie river) became brackish and eventually fully saline as a maritime gulf.

The then-duke Lovis the Tall, who had been staying in the environs of Amstel for some months, is the most famous (and most historically influential) casualty of the Flood, but estimates have suggested a death toll approaching ten thousand.

The destruction is thought to have spurred the development of Axbane on Borland as an alternative, safer harbour for traders passing through the Rustigh Strait.

---

The First Burning of London was a conflagration in 1290 which lasted for a full week and killed approximately four hundred people. This was the earliest of several such burnings, at least two of which are more accurately described as sackings or conquerings. Unlike (say) the Fourth Burning, it is purely conjectural that this particular fire was deliberately set as part of a plot to steal the Redstone Chair (presumably orchestrated by some Markland or Kentish noble).

---

The Failed Crusade was an undertaking which aimed to recreate the March of Jerusalem. The city and its surrounds had been captured during the First Crusade and the first Marksman of Jerusalem, Savino the Just, had acceded in 1119, but it had fallen less than seventy years later.

This crusade was called in 1210 by Pope Just (a direct descendant of Lord Savino), and it was utterly unsuccessful. The campaign went so badly that the Convoy Australier having their control of Port Simon and Antioch revoked in 1208 is generally regarded as a boon for the Convoy.

The various military catastrophes stoked discontent in Rome and elsewhere, along with the outbreak of the First Great Dying (a plague thought to have been brought to Europe by returning crusaders).