131.5: Jeans

Jeans (Merch /dʒeːnz/; Borlish Jen /ʒɛn/; Jean Zena /ˈze.na/) is an Italian polity and city of the same name. It comprises the northwest Middlesea coastline of Italy bordering Provence as well as the island of Corse. It has a long history as one of the so-called 'Latin Republics'.

Toponymy

The Merch name Jeans was borrowed from Old French Jannes /ˈdʒa.nəs/, deriving originally from Genua in Latin. This is probably simply the classical local word for "knee" (cf. Classical Latin genu), in reference to the shape of the coastline it lies on.

History

Jeans is the oldest of the Latin Republics, having come into existence in the tenth century. Along with Venise, it serves as a counterpoint to the notion that the Second Tetrarchy period in the eleventh and twelfth centuries was solely comprised of great centralised empires. The leader of Jeans, known as the console, was elected from among the merchant nobility.

In 1207 N Jeans invaded the Tyrrhene Isles of Corse and Sardine, wresting them from Roman control. Only the northernmost of the two islands would remain in the Jean orbit more permanently.

Piracy plagued the Middlesea coast for the same reason that maritime trade was so profitable for Jeans. It reached a peak at the turn of the sixteenth century as newfound wealth from the Novomund flooded the region.

People

Franco Cicala (r. 1119-22/4), first console from the Cicale family

References

The Latin Republics: Jewels under Tyrian Standards, a 1902 historical reference quire by Jacob Trelaune (cf. in particular 'Part III: Old Jeans')