134.5: A Motley Miscellany

The Bahassassin River [1] is the longest river on the continent of Mendeva [North America], with a total length of just over two thousand leagues. The river passes through multiple polities, including Sangathy and Hasiny, and its eastern tributaries descend from the Sturgovan Mountains [the Appalachians]. The largest city on the banks of the Bahassassin is Nadacow, the capital city of Hasiny. The name of the river comes from the Carovacian [Caddo] name báhassássin "mother of rivers".

[1] comprising the Missouri River and the portion of the Mississippi River downstream of St Louis.

---

Mark of Tolose (d. 1453) was the son of King Ambrose II of Vascony, and the father of King Ambrose III of Vascony. Although he was crown prince, he died three years before his father and thus never reigned. He married Margaret of Iscombe [Exeter] shortly before 1435. Along with Ambrose, they had three other children: their first child Alexandra, and two younger children Victor of Astorga and Natalia.

---

Wings Afire (Ale in Fiamme) is an opera written by Venetian Chiarina Bruno and first performed in the Verona Arena in 1824. It was the first work staged in the Verona Arena since it was shuttered at the outbreak of the Second German War.

The opera is a retelling of the legend of Icarus which takes place entirely after the events of the myth, with references to the dead Icarus in the dialogue. It follows the matron of a clothiery who meets a grieving Daedalus; she helps him to rediscover the joy of invention. The opera's music features the low-pitched mournful melodies of the graveyard fiddlers from Borlish folklore; Bruno is said to have heard of them from her brother Jacomo.