136.5: The Novomund (briefly)

This term Novomund for the great landmasses of the western hemisphere is attested from the early sixteenth century, reflecting a univerbation of latin novus mundus "new world". 
Mendeva [North America]

The name Mendeva was formed backwards from Latin Mendevalēnsis "from Mendeva", attested already on the maps made during the 1471 Landfall (the demonym was later rederived as Mendevānus "Mendevan" from the placename). This comes from Vask [Basque] mendeval "west", itself likely a borrowing from Vascon vent de val "valley wind".

    Ambrosia [~Quebec, the Maritimes, New England] is a Vascony-settled polity named for King Ambrose III of Vascony (r. 1456–1518).
    Zangathy [~the Dakotas, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Winnipeg, Ontario] is a landlocked polity occupying the upriver Bahassassin [Mississippi] directly west of the Five Seas [Great Lakes]. Its name reflects Daccotan [Dakota] zaŋathi "flint region".
    New Provence [~New England, New York, and south as far as South Carolina] is a coastal polity extending westward to the Sturgovan Mountains [Appalachians] which grew from a series of trading post established by Provence merchants.
    Hasiny [~Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, Arkansas, Oklahoma] is the largest polity in so-called British Mendeva, a few states along the Gulf settled by the Kingdom of Britain [~Wales, etc]. It takes its name from the Ractish [Caddo] name Hasíne "our people" for one of the previous nations the modern polity is descended from.
    Taisha [~Texas, Coahuila] is a minor polity of Gulf Mendeva at the crossroads of British and Morrack [Moroccan] influences. Its name comes via Arabic Tayisha' from Ractish taísha' "welcome".
    Mivock [~northern California] is a minor coastal polity on the Lovaqua [Pacific] known for its congenial climate. Of exceedingly sundry influence, its name reflects the name miwoc of the local Mendeva peoples and languages.
    Mashick [~Mexico, southern California, New Mexico, Arizona] is the largest polity in Lower Mendeva, the descendant of the Mashick [Aztec] Empire with heavy Morrack influence. Its name derives via Arabic from the Nawat [Nahuatl] meshi'ca' "Mashick people".

The Arcabil [~the Caribbean] are a collection of islands in the Atlantic, east of Mashick. They have a complicated history of influences from various Vetomundine powers. The name probably comes via the Arabic cognate of "archipelago".

    Cocain [~Cuba] is the largest of the islands of the Arcabil. Its name comes from the European folk tradition of a "land of plenty" (compare pays de Cocaigne, país de Cucanna, paese della Cuccagna).

Cappatia [South America]

European languages take the name Cappatia of this continent from Latin Cappātia, which comes via Arabic from Run'allo [Quechua] cappacha "this world".

    Tavancy [~Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Boliva, northern Chile] is major polity on the western coast, descended from the Tavancine [Inca] Empire. Its name comes from the Latin imperium tavantīnum, which was borrowed via Arabic as a partial calque from the Run'allo tawantin-suyu "the quartet of provinces".
    Staddomains, rather small polities, dot the eastern coast. These grew out of individual trading posts and have many different influences. Examples abound from Dutch influence in Neuwillem, Parnaven and Waronøu to Borlish influence in Monçating.
    Dowahine [~southern Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego] is a minor polity at the southern tip of Cappatia. Its name comes from the Arabic word for "smoke", after the smoke-towers sighted there by Captain al-Casmi in 1513.