139.5: Monarchs of Borland

collected notes on various monarchs of Borland.

Victor Rossetus 'the Red-haired' (fl. c6) was the first Prase of the Boral Diocese. He rose to prominence after the fall of the First Roman Empire and unified the urbanised east of the land while the west and south were settled by Anglians to form Angland and Southbar, respectively. It was under him that so-called 'Roman Borland' first began to succesfully repel the new settlers. By the late sixth century the Diocese of Boral had become a monarchy (described in retrospect as the First Kingdom of Borland), whose ruling dynasty claimed descent from Rossetus.

Jothey, King of Borland (fl. 898), known in Borlish as Joðeg /ʒoˈðij/, was the last ruler of the First Kingdom of Borland before it fell to the Danes in 898. Married to Brenna of Barrow, cousin of King Roderick of Dunclothe, they fled to neighbouring Southbar (and once Southbar also fell to Dane rule, to Kent).

In the first decade of the fifteenth century, Queen Natalia I and her husband King Joseph I ruled jointly. Their family had been and would continue to be beset by misfortune; all three of their sons predeceased them, as did their few male grandchildren (either in infancy or by misadventure). The succession crisis prompted by their deaths in 1411 and 1416 spelt the end of their dynasty.

From the ashes rose the Saulestran lineage of kings, whose banner comprised a white bar cutting a twilight-blue field. This dynasty would go on to last for over four hundred years until the dissolution of the Borlish monarchy itself.

Joseph III (d. 1534) was king of Borland, remembered for ruling the kingdom through the ravages of the Second Great Dying. Joseph never succeeded in producing a natural-born heir, despite several recognised yet illegitimate children by his various mistresses. Thus, after his death in 1534, he was succeeded to the throne by Brandon II, his nephew.

Natalia II (Borlish Natagl, abd. 1894) was the last queen of Borland before the dissolution of the monarchy. She abdicated on Revillon of 1894 during the political upheaval leading to the country joining the Drengot Collusion (several Borlish cities, although not the capital, had already joined as part of the New Urban Mesh).