14.5: Ambrose III of Vascony

collation of all the information I have written elsewhere about King Ambrose III of Vascony, and a map of the territory of Vascony at his accession in 1456 N.

Ambrose III (17 March 1435–28 February 1518), also called Ambrose the Ascendant, ruled the Vascon Kingdom of Navar and Aquitain (Vascony) from 1456 until his death at the age of 83. His father, Prince Mark of Tolose, predeceased him in 1453 when he was 18 years old, and so he ascended to the throne upon the death of his grandfather Ambrose II (after the brief and swiftly-resolved Avalot Planzo) three years later.

At the start of Ambrose III's reign, the country was at its territorial maximum, having conquered northern Portingale (all of Galice and as far south as Braga and—nominally—Calès) and southern Burgundy (which is to say, enough of Provence to share a border with the Italian states of Jeans and Lombardy) during the reign of his grandfather Ambrose II.

Ambrose III is most remembered for ruling through the European discovery of the Novomund in 1471 by ships of the New Navarre Enterprise, a guild established by royal decree in 1458 which aimed primarily to solidify Vascon supremacy in the trade of North Atlantic fish through the Middlesea. British dominion over the Atlantic had long frustrated Vask fishing families, members of which still predominated in the aristocracy and held significant political power in Ambrose's court.

The decades following the Novomundine Landfall brought new prosperity to Vascony, and in particular to Portingale, leading the Vascon Ascendancy (which most historians mark as beginning near the turn of the fifteenth century) to its height.

The king's long and acrimonious relationship with King Munir al-Hamdawi of Morrack (born in 1429 and reigning for a comparable length of time) grew from a childhood enmity to a bitter naval and martial feud, especially after the rest of Portingale fell to Morrack in 1457 N.

The latter years of his reign were marked by decline: the Kingdom of Burgundy retook Provence in 1494 (sparking the 1497–99 War of Provincial Independence), and a decade later the remainder of Vascony's Middlesea coast was taken by Barcelon.

Ambrose III was the eldest son of Prince Mark of Tolose and Margaret of Iscombe. He had a sister, Princess Alexandra, and two younger siblings, Prince Victor of Astorga and Princess Natalia. Although he never married (the cause in part of the instability that plagued his later years), he is thought to have kept several lovers throughout his life, although there is no unimpeachable proof that any of the proposed candidates were his lover.