140.5: Chemical Etymology (cont. 2)

excerpts from the Veriloquace Glossary of Alchemy, a reference quire compiled by Rotcham University Primers [1].

corporal /ˈkoː.pə.ɾəl/ [elements] a pure substance comprising atoms with a single number of mora [protons]; a single atom of such a substance. 1766 < earlier adjective "material, concrete, physical" < Scholastic Latin corporālis < corpus "body, substance".

corporal muster /ˈkoː.pə.ɾəl ˈmʊ.stə/ [periodic table] the arrangement of corporals in rows by moronic count [atomic number] and in columns by alchemic properties. 1879, formed by compounding.

murine /ˈmjəu.ɾəin/ [chlorine] the corporal whose atoms have 17 mora, found as a green air which is highly poisonous. 1805 < Scholastic Latin murīnus "murine; (adj.) briny" < muria "brine, salt solution" < Greek ἁλμῡρῐ́ς • halmūrís "saltiness". Compare dialectal mure "brine" < Drengot muire "brine", from the same Latin. The ending conforms to the corporals which share its column, such as tagline [fluorine] and janthine [iodine].

surfeited /ˈsoːfɪ.tɪd/ [negatively charged] of an atom, endowed with an excess of plenty [electric charge]. 1891 < verb surfeit "oversupply" < Drengot French surfeire "exceed" < Latin super "over" and faciō "I make".

tagline /ˈta.gləin/ [fluorine] the corporal whose atoms have 9 mora, found as a wan yellow-green air which is highly poisonous. 1808 < Scholastic Latin taglīnus, originally applied to minerals containing surfeited tagline [F⁻] < Napolitan taglino (1643) "fondant [flux], substance for lowering the melting point of metals" < Arabic تليين • talyīn "softening; fondant".

---

[1] a publishing house based in the city of Rotcham [Rochdale, Greater Manchester] and affiliated with the local university.