143.5: In the Solar System

    excerpt taken from 1936 work Tell Me Everything About the Solar System [1], part of the Tell Me, Telmy! series of children’s educational books. These were originally written by Adamara Godwilham [2] and featured a fictionalised version of her father Bartelmy, “Telmy”, acting as guide and entertainer. After her death she bequeathed the series to her publishers, Zizania Nexus, who have continued the series to the present day.

…found the four biggest jovial moons right in the middle of the Revitalist period. This time during the sixteenth century was when scholars and artists across the Middlesea [Mediterranean] and the Persias looked back to the works and beliefs of Classical Greece and Rome.

As word spread of the first really new celestial bodies to be discovered for thousands of years, people came up with lots of names for these pharī Iovis “lighthouses of Jove”. Some people wanted to bring glory to their patrons, lords or lands. Others reached to retellings of Classical legends which were in fashion.

The convention that has lasted in European languages, and which has been maintained since we have found many more small jovial moons in the last century, has been to name Jupiter’s gyrers [satellites] for his mortal descendants. We have done the same with the two moons of Mars, Dimus [Phobos] and Phobus [Deimos], which are named for his twin sons and attendants.

In myth, Æacos was the grandfather…

—

[1] originally published in Kentish as Tell Me Wrich by th'Ambit ot Son, pronounced /tɛl mə vʀɪtʃ bi θamˈbɪt ɔt sɔn/.

[2] Adamara is a feminine form of Adamar, from Classical German roots audas “wealth” and mēras “fame”. The surname, pronounced /ˈgwɪ.ləm/, is from placenames deriving from early Kentish godwille “fortune, blessing” and hamme “enclosure”.