146.5: 6th Lexember - lançbal "lineball"

lançbal /ˌlantsˈbal/ [ˌlansˈbal]
- lineball, a particular team sport similar to handball or rugby;
- the ball used in this sport;
- (loosely, informal) other team sports involving throwing a ball;
- hot potato, something which gets passed on rapidly due to nobody wanting to deal with it

Etymology: eighteenth-century compound from lançar "to throw" and bal "ball". The verb descends from Late Latin lanceō "I launch, shoot, pierce", a derivative of Classical lancea "javelin, spear". Compare caugtrbal "kickball, football", which dates from roughly the same time as a word but whose rules were standardised several decaded later than lineball. In the last sense the word is attested from the 1950s.

Candon y nuverrem es ig Istr Boral vencoy ny torne a lançbal?
/kanˈdɔn i niˈvɛ.rɛm ɛz ai ɪstr̩ boˈral vɛnˈkɔi ni torˈne a ˌlantsˈbal/
[kɐnˈdɔn i nɪˈvɛ.ʀɐm ɪz ai ˈɪ.stɐ bʊˈʀal vɪŋˈkɔi ni tʊːˈne a ˌlansˈbal]
when df recent-cmp be cmp island Borland win-pst in-df contest at lineball
When did Borland last win the lineball tournament?

---

Twentieth Century History

excerpt from a 2021 book called Excourse Puzzlers, published by the Royal Tommarth Castinghouse. This was a collection of casual party games using the branding and popularity of a long-running series begun by Merch couple Anna and Ralph Highwater in the 1930s.

Twentieth Century History II (answers on sheet 143)

1. In which Mendevan [North American] polity were the first sobot [radio] transmitters and receivers invented in 1903?

2. Which of the adolescences [coming-of-age novels] of Dorotha Quistack, published in 1917, won the Hatfell Honour and was adapted into a film starring Joke Pentawer just two years later?

3. Who led the government whose collapse in 1925 was the beginning of the so-called Portingale Anarchy?

4. What is the full name of the painkiller present in "Tommy pills", first synthesised in 1932 as the result of collaboration between the Branwen Sanatory and the University of Rimack?

5. How was the length of the (dime) foot redefined in 1946, giving it the value it has to this day?

6. Who was the monarch of Hasiny whose death due to a convoy accident in 1950 is alleged to have been purposefully orchestrated with the knowledge of his grandson Pether?

7. Which national team achieved its only victory in the Lineball Global Tourney to date in 1965?

8. As part of the 120-year celebrations of the Laic Declarions of Belgrade, what was legalised by laws passed simultaneously in 1970 across over a dozen polities?

9. What was the name given to the natural disaster which struck Mashick [Mexico] on the 19th of September 1985?

10. The restored steamship displayed from 1991 to 1995 in Deganny [Deganwy, Wales] was originally part of what polity's "Culombálu" fleet?