148.5: 20th Lexember - incommorant "immediate"

incommorant /ɪnˌkɔ.moˈrant/ [ɪŋˌkɔ.mʊˈʀant]
- immediate, instant, happening straight away;
- expeditious, speedy, acting with efficiency and rapidity;
- proactive, driven, showing initiative and acting without delay;
- punctual, prompt, timely, acting or happening on time

Etymology: Middle Borlish borrowing from Scholastic Latin incommorāns "not lingering; not delaying", a derivative of the root moror "I linger, loiter" (compare also commorar "tarry", borrowed or backformed somewhat later).

Sell'ec gest volen rebondir cos incommorant.
/ˈsɛ.lɛk ʒɛst voˈlɛn ˌre.bɔnˈdɪr kɔz ɪnˌkɔ.moˈrant/
[ˌsɛ.lɪgˈʝɛst vʊˈlɛn ˌʀe.bʊnˈdɪː kɔz ɪŋˌkɔ.mʊˈʀant]
3s.gn=p.px act will.ipf rebound-inf adv immediate
His acts would have immediate consequences.

---

The Fourteenth Century

collected notes on various features of the fourteenth century.

Nicolas of Avignon (Provincial Nicolà s Avignon /ni.koˈlɔ sa.viˈɲũ/, fl. 1347) was a renowned Burgund architect. He is principally remembered for leading the renovation and expansion of Saint Sophia's Cathedral in Stamboul, the capital city of the Second Roman Empire. His use of experimental techniques in supporting the central dome are alleged to have rendered the entire main body of the cathedral slightly unstable. For this reason he is sometimes jocularly referred to as the "architect of the Empire's demise", given the tragic collapse of the building during a coronation ceremony three hundred years later that killed most of the imperial family (and hundreds more) and sparked the unrest that would end the Empire for good.

The Noccair Lyceum (Borlish Lyce a Noccair /liˈtse a nɔˈker/) was established in the early 1300s in the minor town of Noccair; it was the first institute of higher learning on Borland. Like many similar European universities, it initially taught students the so-called Five Romantic Arts of literature, argument, reckoning, geometry and songcraft. By the end of the century alchemy had been introduced to the curriculum.

The Tales of Enfield Wood was a compendium of folk tales compiled in Kent in the late fourteenth century. It is usually credited to the author John of Yare, although this has been questioned. It contains many interpretations of episodes in the life of the Farmer Duke, a folk hero common to English-speaking peoples, as well as demonstrating the growing divergence between the Kentish and Merch tongues.