150.5: H is for History

collected notes on three features of the Boralverse alternate history that begin with the letter H.

Hasinic Welsh (Cambroec Hasinia /kəmˈbreːk həˈziː.njə/) is one of the primary languages of Hasiny [~S Mississippi River], along with the Mendevan language of Jaughta [~Choctaw]. It is mutually intelligible with other varieties of Welsh, although its orthography uses a different standard to British or Chrysian [Australian] Welsh. A few English words come via this language, like herdtale (a calque of jadełath "herd-dom") and sobot "radio" (originating in Jaughta çobota "message").

Hatfell Honours (Merch /ˈhat.fəl ˈɔ.nəz/) refer to several prizes awarded since the early twentieth century to artists in various fields across the Drengot Collusion (and, after that alliance-federacy collapsed in 1961, across all of Gaul and the Northwestern Isles [Ireland, GB, Borland]). The Honours in literature and drama are among the original set of prizes, while new arts have been admitted as recently as the 2010s. The Honours are named for Hatfell [Hatfield, Hertfordshire], a northern town in London near the border with Markland which was home to a collective of renowned authors in the nineteenth century. In 1918, the writer Dorotha Quistack won a Hatfell Honour for one of her adolescences [coming-of-age novels].

Hostilian (in Borlish often Stiglan /staiˈlan/, latinised as Hostīliānus) was a Borlish monk in the ninth century, often considered the father of Borlish history. His most famous work Historiæ Terrarum Boralensium "Histories of the Borlish Lands" is a semi-mythic account of Borland for the past five centuries since the arrival of Germanic peoples on the island. It includes a continuous list of rulers from Prase Victor Rossetus, several of which are not attested in any other source. This has led some historiographers to conclude that Hostilian was commissioned by the contemporary monarchy to legitimise their rule.