152.5: False Friends

a complete arbitrary selection of dictionary entries from the Concise Onomatory o'Merch (fifth edition), a reference work published in 1961 and compiled by the Utcheter Lexical Association.

carjack [/ˈkaː.dʒak/ "breakup"] n. the ending of a romance, especially if unexpected or one-sided; v. intr. of a romance, to end; v. tr. to end a romance with (someone). The term once referred specifically to a letter informing one's partner of the end of your romance. Early 20C < Borlish soldiers' slang carjacq, car-Jacq meaning "dear John". During the Millstone Wars, this referred to a dreaded letter from one's beloved back home cancelling promises of marriage after the war.

danny [/ˈda.ni/ "nuisance"] n. an annoying person or thing, especially when obstructing what one wants to achieve; adj. annoying or obstructive. 10C Old English danneġ "stinging nettle" < Old Borlish danney, nanney (æq.), thought to reflect a Borland Kelt ?naindia "nettles" (cf Irish ńandóc).

eager [/ˈeː.gə/ "acid"] n. a sour or corrosive substance, (in alchemy) a substance which gives up mora [protons] in aqua or directly to another substance; adj. sour or corrosive, (in alchemy) giving up mora in aqua or directly to another substance, (by extension) unlikable or spiteful. Early Merch eagre "sour" < Middle French aigre (æq.) This descends from colloquial Latin ācrus "sour, bitter", variant of ācer in Classical Latin.

marksman [/ˈmaːks.mən/ "marquess"] n. the noble ruler of (originally) a borderland region known as a mark [march], traditionally ranking above earls due to the prestige of defending the realm's borders. 13C Early Merch < compound of Old English mearc "boundary" and mann "person" used to translate Old French marchis "marquess" in reference to the Marksman of Jerusalem. The term is primarily used for titleholders overseas; within Albion (possibly due to collision with "Markland") predominates the synonymous term edgelord.