157.5: Painkiller Philology

notes on the chemistry and linguistics of the painkiller cozebdo-diamaschal benjamine [ibuprofen].

Cozebdo-diamaschal benjamine (as a medicine sold under several names, including "CD" or "Tommy pills") is a hebetant [painkilling] substance developed in the early twentieth century. It was the result of collaboration between the Branwen Sanatory in New Leudong [south-eastern Australia] and the University of Rimack [Lima] in Tavancy [descendant state of the Incan Empire], which sought to develop hebetants with faster action and milder adversions [side effects]. It was first synthesised in 1932, and a decade later it had surpassed salix derivatives [e.g. aspirin] in sales worldwide, due to providing better pain relief (as opposed to merely reducing the symptoms of fever).

Name

The name of this substance comprises three parts.

The core of the substance is a benjamine [benzene] ring; the name "benjamine" is borrowed via Scholastic Latin and Vascon from Arabic لُبَان جَاوِيّ‎ • lubān jāwiyy, literally "Jawan [Javanese] frankincense", corrupted at some point by the name Benjamin.

The first of the extensions in this substance is a cozebdone branch [isobutyl]. Cozebdone spirit [isobutane] is a rearrangement of the linear zebdone spirit [butane], a colourless and flammable air with a spine of four coke [carbon] atoms. The root zebdo- "four colk atoms" derives from Cairene Arabic زبدة • zébda "butter", first used when zebdone acid [butyric acid] was isolated from milk fat.

The second of the extensions is located directly opposite the first, as indicated by the prefix dia- "across, over", from Greek. It consists of a maschale [propionic acid] branch, which is the acid oil with a spine of length three, a malodorous clear liquid. The substance was named in 1850 after the Ancient Greek μᾰσχᾰ́λη • maschálē "armpit", since it was isolated from human sweat excreted by skin zoia [microorganisms].