158.5: Roun

Roun (Norman, Kentish /ʀãw̃/) is a port on the Seine river and the capital city of Kent.
History

Founded by the Gauls, the city was known to the Romans as Rotomagus and it became the seat of the local bishopric in the early medieval period. The ninth century saw the incursion of the Normans into the region as part of the wider Dane Supremacy; by 850 Roun was under their control. By the eleventh century Roun had become the seat of the Drengot family, ruling the Duchy of Normandy as a semi-autonomous vassal of the Kingdom of the Franks (the western fragment of the erstwhile Francian Empire).

After the Kernovan Conjuring and the formation of the First Drengot Empire covering much of Albion [Great Britain] and most of Gaul [France], Roun was sidelined. The Drengot Emperors moved their court to Paris, although they continued to personally own the duchies of Normandy and Kent. This period marks the beginning of the persistent political union of these two regions on either side of the English Channel.

One of the successor states to the First Drengot Empire was this united Norman Kent, ruled from Roun. King Vincent II of Kent, who ruled in the mid-fifteenth century, is remembered for the expansion of the city keep and for his twin sons (the "Two Henries") who ruled jointly after his death. During this period Roun French developed fully as one standard written form of the language (as opposed to Parisian or Burgund French).

Roun was the administrative centre of the Drengot Collusion from the nineteenth century until its collapse in 1961. The city housed the "Red House", the headquarters of Collusion's Ministry for Information.

Authors
    Mark Deuthex (fl. 1973), whose spycraft tale We Wake to Broken Windows draws on his own experiences in the Red House.
    Josephene Foilliers (fl. 1913), writer of the first work of fiction to sell over a million copies in a single year.
    Ashford Pasquier (fl. 1968), inventor of the term "pistol mesh" in his parachthon work Starsail.