160.5: Diversions and Dilettantes

notes on various features and historical figures beginning with a common pair of letters.

Diana Theodora Queiroz (fl. 1810) was a writer and polemicist from Vascony who was primarily active during the Long Peace period. She was a major figure in opposition to Deviance theology and an ally of the Modest Arrangement, hewing especially closely to the latter's emphasis on morality and familial obligation. Her views have seen her cast as a precursor to the Blue Marian movement, which sought to advance the status of women within a highly religious and stratified framework.

A dice is a value or score of ten in a game or sport. For example, the Maritime deck contains cards like "the dice of staves" or "the dice of gold", and the chances of getting a dice when rolling a pair of dice are one in twelve. This term, along with its cohort [1], were borrowed into the English languages from the Norman names for numerals during the First Drengot Empire in the early second millennium. In certain sports, including lineball, the most points one can score at once is ten; because of this, the word "dice" appears in some idioms meaning "sudden good fortune" or "an impressive feat".

Dimus [Phobos] is the larger of the two moons of Mars. It was discovered, along with the smaller moon Phobus [Deimos], in 1869 by Mashick astronomer Coscatl bint Inám; she also discovered the eighth planet of Janus [Neptune]. Following the custom set by the four great jovial moons, she named the pair after the twin sons of Mars, who personify dread and panic respectively.

Dion Becolla (fl. 1968) was a Borlish author who grew up in the industrial city of Neuvort. She wrote several trevolds [novels] during the 1960s which capitalised on the so-called General Italian Fervour of the period. Her most famous work is the period piece Waging World Peace [2], set during the 1880s in the midst of the Good Game period and owing much to the masquira genre and its hidden identities, high society and complicated schemes.

[1] in full: ace, duce, trey, cater, cink, sice, sept, hute, nuve and dice [Merch /əis, djəus, tɾəi, kɛːtə, sɪŋk, səis, sɛt, hjəut, njəuv, dəis/].

[2] Borlish Paç Mondial Accommettent /pats mɔnˈdjal ˌa.kɔˈmɛ.tɛnt/.