161.5: Dunclothe

Dunclothe (Merch /ˈdʊŋ.kluːð/, Welsh Dincluth /dɪŋˈklyːθ/) is a political and cultural region of western Albion, located south of Scotland and north of Markland. From the Clothe river valley it extends down along the coast to the Bay of Morcambe.

Toponomy

Dunclothe takes its name from the early medieval petty kingdom known alternately as Alt Clud, Strad Clud, or Din Clud; these are ancient British or Guile phrases meaning "cliff, valley or fort of the river Clothe". It is uncertain whether the Dun- element seen in English names for the region reflects Old Irish dún "fort" or Old English dún "hill".

History

The British territory of Dunclothe was partially conquered settled by Dane invaders during the ninth century. However, the region was not subsumed into the Dane Supremacy as fully as neighbouring Sodrick and Northumber to the west and east respectively.

Dunclothe appears to have controlled the fort at Eidin (modern Edinbrough) until it was sacked by Northumber in 928. Meanwhile Sodrick's power was waning; under King Roderick, Dunclothe conquered the isles of Arran and Mann by 942. The bride of King Radulf of Northumber (r. 951–), one Atre of Cheswic, may perhaps be one of King Roderick's daughters.

In the early eleventh century, Dunclothe is part of a confederation of Dane Kingdoms. However, this would shortly collapse with the rapid expansion of the First Drengot Empire to the south, which incorporated Northumber along with most of southern Albion. This period sees Dunclothe grow closer to newly-united Wales, allies in opposition to Drengot power.

In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, Dunclothe-led fisheries in the North Atlantic were a major exporter of dried and/or cured cod, selling it via the meshes of Borland and Vascony as far afield as the Eastern Middlesea. This trade was a notable source of specie for the vicinity.

The Kingdom of Britain was founded in the fifteenth century, formalising the suzerainty of Wales over the tallaths of Devon and Dunclothe.