162.5: Mathematical Etymology (cont.)

more excerpts from the Veriloquace Glossary o'Mathematics, a reference quire in the Merch language compiled by Rotcham [Rochdale] University Primers.

æther /ˈiː.θə/ [field] the assignment of a quantity (e.g. a dart [vector]) to each point in space. In the modern sense from the late 19C, formerly used to refer to the supposed medium within which phenomena like light, heat or astraphor [electricity] propagate. Early Merch ether (later re-classicised) < Old French < Latin æthēr "the heavens" < Greek αἰθήρ • aithḗr "heavens, open sky".

hedre /ˈhɛ.də/ [face; bivector] one of the mozate [2D] components of the surface of a solid figure; a physical quantity of mozate kind, such as rotation. 16C, extracted from compounds like octahedre < Scholastic Latin -hedrum "-faced" < Greek ἕδρᾱ • hédrā "seat, chair; face".

matching /ˈma.tʃɪŋg/ [bijection] a reversible correspondence between the elements of two collections W and X, both severing [injective] and covering [surjective], so that each element of X is associated to a unique element of W and vice versa. 1831 < translation of Saxon jochung "yoking" in Dümmeyer, 1827. The verb match comes from the identical noun < Old English mæċċa "consort" < Classical German macciō "partner".

oversamn /ˈoː.sa.mn̩/ [superset] a collection X which contains all of the elements of another collection W, and usually more besides. 1831 < calque of Saxon övrsammel "superset" in Dümmeyer, 1827. The noun samn "set" is from the identical verb < Old English samnian "collect, gather" < Classical German samnō "I gather".

stepth /ˈstɛpθ/ [gradient] the ratio of a change in vertical displacement to the corresponding change in horizontal displacement, a measure of how sloped an incline is. 1690 in mathematics < early Merch steapth < adjective steap "steep, sheer" < Old English stēap "high, lofty" < Classical German staupas "high, lofty".

vater /ˈvɛː.tə/ [sine] the ratio of the lengths of the side of a triangle opposite a given angle to the length of the hypotenuse. 17C < Scholastic Latin vatrus (cf. earlier alvatrō etc) < Arabic وَتَر • watar “bowstring, chord” < calque of Sanscrit ज्या jiā "bowstring; vater". The polysemy arises by picturing an arc of a circle with the chord drawn as a bow with bowstring.