164.5: Kelt Borland

notes on the people and culture of Borland before the Roman invasion.

The Iron Age began on Borland at approximately the same time as on the other Northwestern Isles [Ireland, GB] in the ninth century aN. The identity of the first Borland ironworkers is debated and is made complicated by overlapping waves of migrations, but eventually they became identifiably Kelt. The last significant such wave was of early Brythonic speakers on Albion settling Borland from the west in the fourth century aN, the ancestors of the small hill-fort kingdoms which covered the island at the time of the Roman invasion in the first century N.

There are several archaelogical structures on Borland which predate the Kelt migrations but which the Kelts repurposed for ritual use. The most famous of these sites is a so-called "labyrinth" located on Çadrosc Heath in the northwest of the island. There are also many cairns dating to this period, now called sarzin stones (from a late medieval use of sarzin "pagan" deriving from Latin Saracēnus "Muslim").

The name Borland (Istr Boral) is thought to descend from the Kelt enis borag "island of the dawn [viz. East]" and bora ale "the other Easterners", which would imply the name was originally as exonym used by Brythonic speakers on Albion. The adoption of this name for the island by the Romans was undoubtedly influenced by its similarity to unrelated Latin boreālis "northern"; this connection is referenced by contemporary writers.

The Borland tradition of Revillon can trace its origins to a winter feast celebrated by the Kelts, recorded as the Flidōlus (further etymology unknown) by third-century Roman historian Ammian.