169.5: Time for T

collected notes on four features of the Boralverse alternate history that begin with the letter T.

Tewis Camigner (fl. c16) was a botanist from Willemy during the Revitalist period, sometimes called the father of farm theory. His writings in experientia include the first reference to the high sugar content of beet syrup, which would go on to inspire the 1730s Pentrose survey. This was a search for a domestic alternative to sugarcane which resulted in the braxoch, a hybrid of Silesian and Cassuvian beets with a characteristic gold colour and the ancestor of almost all modern sugar beets.

Tightrope Walking: a Linguistic History of Borland (originally in Napolitan as Funamblisme: n'Istorio Lingual d'e Isule Bural) is a scholastic quire written by Ghendaline Cecchino and published in 1991 by the Edizore Università Napule. The work chronicles how the Borlish language has changed from the Roman period until the modern day.

Tolose is a city and region in the south of Gaul [France], formerly an independent polity. It was a march (and then a duchy) vassal of the First Drengot Empire in the eleventh and twelfth centuries, bordering the kingdom of Barcelon to the south. However, the region maintined significant independence, with its own standing army. Following the collapse of the First Drengot Empire, Tolose became a hotly contested border region. It was conquered by Vascony from the west in the fifteenth century (see Prince Mark of Tolose, heir to the Vascon throne who predeceased his father in 1453). In the first decade of the sixteenth century, Barcelon conquered Tolose from Vascony, and the region has been territory belonging to the kingdom of Barcelon since (barring some brief exceptions).

Tuscany is an Italian polity on the Tyrrhene Sea, bordering Jeans [Genoa], Lombardy and Rome. Its capital city is Florence. Between the tenth and thirteenth centuries it was ruled by the Pisan dynasty, including the renowned Duchess Matilda (r. 1102-1146). The Italian language of Tuscany has contributed many loanwords to European languages due to the prestige and trade wealth of the region.