170.5: Decim(alis)ation

excerpt from the 1st July 1975 edition of the Scavlour (Reflecter), a workdaily paper from Borland which focuses on political news.

…impractical to import astraphor [electricity] from Portingale.

GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCES FIRST DECIMATION IN FIFTY YEARS

In a long-anticipated move, the Ministry for Wealth has confirmed that all four conditions of the '15 Food Prices Act have been met. The gemma (⍚), which has been the base unit of Borlish currency since 1925, is to be first supplemented and eventually replaced with a coin worth 10⍚.

Minister Gottart has expressed his intention that new coin and notes denominated in the new currency will enter circulation on David's Day of 1977. For the next four months the ministry is accepting public input on the name and designs of the new coinage, although calls for a popular vote on the final name have been rejected (perhaps due to the unfortunate example of Burgundy, which went through its own decimation three years ago). No timeline has yet been confirmed for the deprecation of the gemma, but exchange schemes are likely to be available for at least a year after gemma-denominated coins are no longer legal tender.

This will be only the third currency in Borland since the polity moved to a decimal system of coinage upon its 1894 incorporation into the Drengot Collusion. The process of so-called "decimation" is common to all Drengot successor states and has been taken up by several others through the twentieth century. It obtained its violent name as a cod-Latin pun and insult by Sarzan Dawkinholm, one-time Outland Minister in Markland and one of the most vociferous opponents to decimation.

The necessity of decimation has been questioned by trade theorists, especially given that many parts of the world seem to have no issue spending hundreds or thousands of the local currency on (say) a loaf of bread, but…