172.5: How to spell Borlish

I've finally started a proper reference work for Borlish; I've finished the orthography section!

Here are the twenty-seven letters of the standard Borlish alphabet, along with their letter names.

The character ‹ w ›, which is used in foreign words and some names (like Willaum ‘William’), is pronounced like ‹ v › and called vescon ‘second-vee’. There are also some compound characters. The ligatures ‹ æ œ ›, primarily used in Classical loanwords, are called æsc and œthel respectively and pronounced as if written ‹ e ›. The character ‹ ï › is referred to as i jammel ‘twin i’ and pronounced as if written ‹ yi ›.

In the following we will consider ‹ y › to be a vowel when written between consonants and/or word boundaries, and a consonant otherwise.

Consonants

The following letters regularly denote a single phoneme.

Of these, the letters ‹ b d f l m n p r › may appear doubled, which usually does not affect their pronunciation.

    abbað joddy affis ollom commet bannir çoppin arrum
    /aˈbaθ ʒɔˈdi aˈfɪz ɔˈlɔm kɔˈmɛt baˈnɪr tsɔˈpɪn aˈrɪm/
    abbot cuppa tip relic ban start toffee cosine

The only exception to this is that ‹ mm nn rr › may denote a single consonant followed by a syllabic consonant. This is the reading when ‹ mm nn rr › occurs word-finally or before a consonant.

    yem-m grin-n car-r
    /ˈjɛm.m̩ ˈgrɪn.n̩ ˈkar.r̩/
    get-1p judge-3p seek-inf

The letter ‹ ð › is pronounced /θ/ word-finally and /ð/ otherwise; the letter ‹ x › regularly denotes the phoneme sequence /ks/.

Consider the final six letters ‹ c g h s t y › when they occur alone (not part of a digraph). In this case, the letters ‹ t y › regularly denote /t j/ respectively. The letter /t/ may be doubled, without any effect on its pronunciation.

    tien yoc cattin
    /tjɛn jɔk | kaˈtɪn/
    yours husband kitten

The letter ‹ c › is pronounced /ts/ before ‹ e i y › and /k/ otherwise. The doubled ‹ cc › is pronounced /kts/ before ‹ e i y › and /k/ otherwise.

By contrast, the letter ‹ g › may be pronounced as either of /g ʒ/ before ‹ e i y › and is pronounced /g/ otherwise (and similarly for doubled ‹ gg ›).

    cigl cuivr bac | gevou genoil tenguð
    /tsajl ˈkajv.r̩ bak | geˈvu ʒeˈnɔjl tɛnˈgɪθ/
    darling copper twig | (watch out) knee bauble

The letter ‹ h › is either pronounced /h/ or is silent (the latter only in some vocabulary inherited from Latin and after vocalic ‹ g ›); The letter ‹ s › is pronounced /z/ in coda position or between vowels, and /s/ otherwise or when doubled.

    heu hom augher | bevis bosaç bustr bossir
    /hau ɔm oˈjɛr | beˈvɪz boˈzats ˈbɪst.r̩ bɔˈsɪr/
    mien person tumbler | note gunfire example gent

Consonant digraphs

The six letters ‹ c g h s t y › combine with other graphemes to form digraphs. The sequences ‹ sc ch th › regularly denote the phonemes /x k θ/. The potentially ambiguous sequence ‹ sch › is read /sk/. The sequence ‹ cq › is pronounced /k/.

    sclar chym thral schol jalicq
    /xlar kɪm θral skɔl ʒaˈlɪk/
    lightning lymph slave school tuxedo

The graphemes ‹ g y › only form digraphs when combined with vowels, for which see below.
Vowels

Divide written vowels into two groups. Free vowels are either wordfinal or separated from the next vowel in the word by a single consonant grapheme (or one of ‹ sc ch th ›).

    choma epu idiocy nothe
    /koˈma eˈpi ˌi.djoˈtsi noˈθe/
    gnome express stupidity illegitimate

Checked vowels are either in a final closed syllable or separated from the next vowel in the word by at least two consonant graphemes.

    commun ambasctour sincer
    /kɔˈmɪn ˌam.baxˈtur sɪnˈtsɛr/
    ordinary emissary genuine

Now consider the letters ‹ a e i o u y › when they occur alone (not part of a digraph). When they are free, ‹ a e i o u y › when they occur alone (not part of a digraph). When they are free, ‹ a e i o u y › are pronounced /a e i o i i/.

    cla vige bro cru try
    /kla viˈʒe bro kri tri/
    key wealthy dude raw turn

When they are checked, ‹ a e i o u y › are pronounced /a ɛ ɪ ɔ ɪ ɪ/.

    vindron vampyr effus
    /vɪnˈdrɔn vamˈpɪr ɛˈfɪz/
    vintner vampire extensive

Between a consonant and one of the vowels ‹ a e o u ›, the graphemes ‹ i u › denote the semivowel ‹ j ›. The grapheme ‹ u › denotes the semivowel /w/ specifically after ‹ q ›.

    diac suet quelt
    /djak sjɛt kwɛlt/
    mic familiar dinner

Vowel digraphs

The digraphs ‹ au eu ou › are pronounced /o au u/ respectively. The rarer ‹ ao eo › share their pronunciation with ‹ eu ›.

    taur teun tout | paon theory
    /tor taun tut | paun thauˈri/
    bull scant everything | peacock science

The digraphs ‹ ai ei oi ui › and ‹ ay ey oy uy › are pronounced /e i ɔj aj/ respectively. Intervocalically, ‹ y › does double duty, simultaneously affecting the previous vowel as stated and acting as an onset ‹ j ›.

    deit joivr | rayon huyaç
    /dit ˈʒɔjv.r̩ | reˈjɔn haˈjats/
    finger frost | sunbeam corruption

The vast majority of coda ‹ g › and some other ‹ g › before consonants form vowel digraphs. Here, the digraphs ‹ ag eg ig og ug aug oug › may be pronounced /ɛj ɪj aj ɔj aj oj uj/ respectively.

    bag deg rig pog tug faug voug
    /bɛj dɪj raj pɔj taj foj vuj/
    berry ten queue few passion sickle wrong

However, there are cases where a ‹ g › in one of the above environments is read consonantally.

    magr magr | migrar scigrar
    /ˈmag.r̩ ˈmɛj.r̩ | mɪˈgrar xajˈrar/
    rash scarce | migrate redistrict
