174.5: False Friends (cont.)

some more completely arbitrary dictionary entries from the Concise Onomatory o'Merch (fifth edition), a reference work published in 1961 and compiled by the Utcheter Lexical Association.

cockapple [/ˈkɔkˌa.pəl/ "apricot"] n. a stone fruit resembling the passock [peach] and in the plum group, with pink-yellow flesh and downy skin; the tree which bears this fruit; a colour or dye in the colour of this fruit. Late 17C, variant rationalised to usual Merch compounding patterns < late 15C applecock, variant by analogy to "apple" of apricock, abrecock < French abricoc < Barcelon abrecoc, albercoc < Morrove البرقوق • al-barqūq < Malchassian βερικοκκία • bericoccía < Latin (mālum) praecoquum "early-ripening apple".

handiwork [/ˈhan.dɪˌwɔːk/ "surgery"] n. the medical practice of using incisions to remove, replace or repair an internal part of the body; such an individual procedure; (archaic or jocular) any manual labour, work that is done by hand. 16C in the modern sense, possibly influenced by synonymous Welsh łodrinneth "hand-treatment" < Old English handȝeweorc "manual labour; handcraft, something made by hand", a compound of hand "hand" and ȝeweorc "piece of work".

ough [/uːf/ "bad"] adj. of low quality or standard; incorrect or mistaken; sickly or unwell; faulty or dysfunctional, clumsy or unskilled. Early Merch wough, woȝ [woːx] "wrong, incorrect" < Old English wōh, wōg "crooked, bent; wrong".

penguin [/pɪnˈgjəwɪn/ "pangolin"] n. any of several species of long-tailed and scaly ferents [mammals] found in tropical Africa and Asia; a game of cards played for money which originated in Bengal. Early 18C via earlier attestations in other European languages < Bāsan [Malay] penguwing "one who rolls". In the second sense, the word is a calque from Bengal bonoro "penguin, apparently named for a deck which featured art of a pangolin on some of the cards.