175.5: Stillian

collected notes on the subject of King Stillian, a medieval Borlish ruler.

Stillian of Borland (r. ca. 790–823 N, Borlish Stiglan /stajˈlan/) was king of Roman Borland in the late eighth and early ninth centuries. This so-called First Kingdom of Borland had grown out of the sub-Roman Diocese of Boral in the early medieval period, having become a monarchy in tandem with (and possibly influenced by) the new petty kingdoms settled by Germanic peoples in the west and south of the island of Borland.

Like all kings of Roman Borland, Stillian claimed to be descended from Victor Rossetus, the semi-mythic figure who united much of the land once external Roman authority receded in the fifth century. The name Stillian descends from Latin Hostīliānus, attested also as the name of a Roman emperor who ruled briefly in 251 N.

Stillian is primarily remembered for actions which put an end to the perennial Tripartite Wars and unifed the island under one polity for the first time since the Roman Empire. This term refers to a centuries-long series of conflicts over territory and fealty, principally between Roman Borland and the kingdoms of Southbar and Angland; by the eighth century these three powers controlled the vast majority of the island. Kings of Borland had made temporary alliances before with either of Southbar and Angland.

In 803, Stillian's son Marc was married to Alfegh of Angland's only child (variously recorded as Raunilt or Raunvig, likely from Old English hræfn "raven" and a name element like hild or wig "war, battle"). The two royal dynasties had been connected by marriage before, and this wedding allowed both kingdoms to claim continuity with the new unified polity. Approximately seven years later, Southbar was forced to pledge fealty to the new kingdom after the Battle of Fendal.