177.5: C is for Chronology

collected notes on features of the Boralverse alternate history that begin with the letter C.

Coscatl bint Inám (fl. 1869) was a Mashick [Mexican] astronomer. She was born in the then-young city of Moshtar [~San Francisco]; she received her further education at the University of Anawack [~Mexico City] and the nearby observatory at Chapel Hill [Chapoltepec]. As an astronomer, bint Inám is remembered for discovering and helping to name several astronomical objects. These include the moons of Mars, Dimus [Phobos] and Phobus [Deimos], and most famously the eighth-most distant planet of Janus [Neptune]. Furthermore, her calculations of the perceived timing of the jovial phares [Galiliean moons] in their transits of Jupiter helped to pin down the speed of light.

Crain (Bavarn /krɑːn/, Borlish Carniol /karˈnjɔl/) is a region of Central Europe, east of Furlain [Friuli] and north of Crovatia [Croatia]. During the Second Tetrarchy of the eleventh and twelfth centuries it was a march in the southeasternmost part of the German Empire, initially automonous but later subordinate to the Kingdom of Bavarn. It was prosperous at this time mostly due to trade into its coastal city of Trieste. During the German Secession of the thirteenth century, when many polities broke ties with the Roman Pope in favour of the (hastily established) Augsburg See, the then-duchy of Crain supported the Roman Papacy. This was likely more from pragmatism than religious fervour, as its western and southern neighbours were both partisan of Rome. Nonetheless, the region become an important Roman stronghold, and the base from which it undertook the Baptism of the North.

Cuonrat Aihuosc (fl. c8?, name often Latinised to Corradus Aevoscus) was the dubiously historical founder of the noble house of Avosche and namesake of the region of Avosche in Willemy [~Lotharingia]. His surname is of obscure origin; the first element presumably reflects Classical German ehu- "horse", while the second may be from suffix -iscas "-ish" (though the vowel is problematic).