183.5: Defining the Dime

excerpt from the work Pa's Hyd Raf? "How Long is a Piece of String?", written in 2026 as a series of freely available posts on the mesh by Łew ab Ennis, which delves into the history of the development of systems of weights and measures.

…originally defined the "second" simply as the eight-and-sixty-four hundredth part of the mean solar day, but by the end of the nineteenth century it had been observed that this period would vary by as much as a few hundred scant (10⁻⁸). In search of a stabler value, the Secular Second Undertaking set several astronomical groups worldwide to record the precise length of the tropical year from the summer solstice of 1900 until that of 1901, and defined the "(secular) second" to be the 3155,6926th part of this timespan.

While time has always had a single fundamental base in the dime measure system, other quantities are less simple. The dime principle that all quantities should be related by factors of ten did not prevent a proliferation of standards. Length has four basic units in common usage: a league is a hundred chains, a chain a hundred feet, a foot ten inches. Units of area and volume are defined by squares and cubes of the base lengths. For example, the farthing (formerly defined as one quarter of an acre) is equal to a square chain.

In the first decades of the twentieth century, the foot was still officially defined as the length of a particular rod of iron-baxon [nickel] alloy kept in Tammombay [Mumbai]. In 1946 the foot was redefined in terms of the second, so that the normal speed œ [lightspeed] would be precisely 10,0000,0000 feet per second. This locked the precision of the foot to that of the second. Subsequent refinements have primarily come in the form of particular sources of light, whose spans [wavelengths] or equivalently cadences [frequencies] can be pinpointed extremely accurately.

The basic units of heft [mass] in the dime measures—the scruple, ounce, tabre and ton—were originally defined in terms of the density of water. To wit, the ounce was set as the mass of a cube of distilled water of side length one (dime) inch; this was later refined to specify that the water should be at its threshold point [triple point]. In practice, due to the difficulty of operationalising the water-based definition to more than a hundred-scant precision, by the 1920s the tabre (100 ounces) was fixed to a particular joracker [platinum] alloy puck weighing a tabre (one hundred ounces)…

===

Real-life comparisons:
1 dime second ~= 1 second - 0.84 nanoseconds

1 dime foot ~= 29.98 centimetres, 0.9836 feet

1 farthing ~= 0.08988 hectares, 0.2221 acres

1 dime ounce ~= 26.94 grams, 0.9502 ounces

1 tabre ~= 2.694 kilograms, 5.939 pounds