186.5: False Friends (cont. 2)

some more completely arbitrary dictionary entries from the Concise Onomatory o'Merch (fifth edition), a reference work published in 1961 and compiled by the Utcheter Lexical Association.

Awry [/ˈəu.ɾi/ "Hungary"] n.pr. a polity of Europe inhabited principally by the Majoric people, located east of Crain and Crovatia and west of Halich and Vallack. 10C Old English, allied with contemporary French Avrie, Saxon Aweri, Bavarn Awaren < Medieval Latin Avaria "the Avar Empire". This early medieval empire was erroneously conflated in Latin sources with (or perhaps merely repurposed as a geographical term for) the subsequent Majoric principality after their conquest of the region in the ninth century.

boss [/bɔs/ "gun"] n. a handheld weapon which fires a bullet using some explosive substance. 16C < Willem Dutch bósz, armbósz "boss" < early Dutch armbaust "crossbow" < Old French arbaleste < later Latin arcuballista "crossbow".

guy-coney [/ˈgəiˌkʊ.ni/ "guinea pig"] n. (also guy) a small, tail-less glire of Cappatia [South America] raised for meat or as a hearth animal. 17C, a borrowing in sense from Vascon conill guy (the second element altered in pronunciation to match the name) < 16C Morrove Arabic قنية قُوِي • (qnia qui) < Run'allo [Quechua] qowi "(female) guy-coney". For the coney element: 12C early Merch < reformed singular of Norman plural conis "coneys" of conil < Latin cunīculus "coney; burrow, warren; mine".

sicker [/ˈsɪ.kə/ "certain"] adj. free of any doubt or possibility of being incorrect; confident of one's correctness. Direct descendant of Old English sicor "safe, certain" < western Classical German sicur < Latin sēcūrus "unconcerned; fearless; safe".