187.5: The Void

notes on three things which are somehow related to outer space.

The Superdraconic Apocalypse (Borlish Apocalyps Surdraconic /aˌpo.kaˈlɪps sɪrˌdra.koˈnɪk/) refers to the fall of a cisjovial sax [asteroid from the asteroid belt] approximately sixty-six hundred myriad years ago, probably during the northern spring. It was followed by the eradication of roughly three-quarters of all animal species, including all dragons [dinosaurs] bar the ancestors of modern birds. The name of this event, coined in the nineteenth century as a hypothetical (several decades before evidence of the impact was actually discovered) to explain the extinction in the fossil record, refers to its location—temporally at the end of, and therefore geologically on top of, the Draconic Age (2.5–0.66 great myriad years ago).

The waveform display [Fourier transform] (Borlish despley ondatim /dɛˈspli ˌɔn.daˈtɪm/) is the presentation of a mathematical function as the sum of vatre and arrhumb [sine and cosine] functions. This technique was developed in the eighteenth century as a way to help compute celestial orbits, in part by Barcelon mathematician Raymond al Mustafa.

The Auroric Anomaly of 1859 (Borlish Anomaly Auroric /aˌno.maˈli ˌo.roˈrɪk/) was a collection of phenomena associated with an intense sunstorm, including auroras and—most famously—malfunctioning barrick steeplepost [electric telegraph] equipment. Various operators reported sparks, fires, and even being able to sporadically use wires to transmit when they weren't powered. The first tachygraph [typewriter] capable of sending messages on the steeplemesh was tested by Tomas Vilmanas on Michael's Day, less than a month after the Anomaly. However, despite later dramatisation, there is little evidence that the two events are connected.