188.5: The Second Millennium

notes on various names ordered chronologically.

Damian VI "the Wise" (r. 1199–1208; Damianus Sagāx) was a Pope in Rome during the tail end of the period known as the Medieval Imperia or the Second Tetrarchy. He was the first Roman Pope elected from the membership of the Brethin religious order, a Kelt monastic organisation dedicated among other things to record-keeping. Like others of his papal name, he honoured the twin saints Cosmas and Damian, third-century martyrs. Damain VI is remembered well, mostly in comparison to his successor Pope Just's numerous catastrophes.

The San Tomé (Portingale /sãw tuˈmɛ/ "Saint Thomas") was a myton [a type of merchant ship] of the Vascon trade fleet; as with many such ships, it was nominally the personal property of one of the powerful Vask noble families enirched by Atlantic fishing. Logs of its voyages have by happenstance been well-preserved. During one of its regular routes, from Cale [Oporto] to Damvath in September of 1492, the log records being unable to make port at Bournemouth due to battle in the city and harbour (part of the Wars of Fealty).

Gudmund and Rebecca Scradder (fl. 1677) were a married couple of Dane astronomers. In the 1670s they undertook a voyage to Seldiva [Sri Lanka] as part of a global scientific effort to observe a predicted transit of Mercury. Their observations helped to compute the mean distance from the Earth to the Sun.

Cadogan Torrior (fl. 1890) was an author from Nadacow [a city on the banks of the lower Mississippi] in Hasiny. Of relatively minor account during his life, his works of masquira like the 1890 trevold Men of Jet and Diamond have attained greater popularity through the mid-twentieth century. This was thanks to successful film adaptations, such as the New Provincial 1950 production Blanc Sabaje "Jet White".