193.5: Aqueous Axton

Axton (Parisian French Grand-Aix /gʀãˈdɛiks/, Willem Dutch Aughen /ˈɔ.xn̩/) [Aachen] is a major city in the polity of Willemy and the municipal centre of the region of Avosche. It is located on the Worm river, which flows via the Rudder [Rur] into the Maze [Meuse].

The name of the city derives from post-Classical German *Ākā "Axton", attested in late Old English as Aces tūn "*Ākā's town". This in turn was borrowed from Latin aqua "water", in reference to the local thermal springs. The placename was pluralised in most Dutch languages, while in French languages the placename acquired the descriptor grand- "great" to distinguish it from other towns named Aix for their bathing waters. Compare the Borlish city of Axbane, from the Latin Aquis Balnei "to the bathing waters".

The city was of mostly ceremonial importance through the second millennium, as the seat of the county (then the march, then the duchy) of Avosche within Willemy. Roger Nassow, first duke of Avosche in the early sixteenth century, oversaw the construction and expansion of the Nassow palace complex in the foothills of the Eiffel range which overlooked the city. During this time, the city was in the territory of French Guillenne.

Axton grew dramatically into an industry town around the turn of the nineteenth century and through the Global Workshop period. This was made possible by the advent of transport of freight by convoy [train] instead of by water, since the Rudder and Worm rivers are not navigable by large ships. The city also became a hub for learning, with the Axton Benet School rising in prominence under the stewardship of professors such as mathematician Nicolas Defechet/Niclás de Feght.