195.5: Borland in the FIrst Millennium

questions and commentary from the August 2025 edition of an Insular History scitation [exam] taken by many Borlish school students at the age of fifteen.

…rulers of the First Roman Empire personally stepped foot on Borland, and what were the contexts of their visits?

Most students correctly named Claudius and Hadrian; almost all cited the former's role in orchestrating the conquests of Britain and Borland and incorporating them into the Roman Empire, and the latter's tour leading to the creation of a Borlish province (Īnsula Borālum or occasionally Borālia) separate from Britain. Common mistakes included later emperors like Septimius Severus and Constantius Chlorus, who fought in Britain; by the third-century the territory of Borland was much more secure than Britain, having been conquered in its entirely and thus requiring fewer fortifications against incursions. Another mistaken inclusion seen repeatedly was Diocletian, likely due to the curriculum mentioning the creation of the Diocese of Borland (from the former Borlish province) during the administrative reforms of his reign.

4. Describe the process by which the post-Imperial Diocese of Borland became a hereditary monarchy (the First Kingdom of Borland) by the turn of the seventh century.

Answers tended either to parrot the pat narrative of a century ago or, more promisingly, to mirror the state of current scholarship. There are relatively certain historical facts regarding Victor Rossetus (r. ca. 420–?) that most could recall, being the first ruler of a re-cobbled-together Diocese of Borland after the island was abandoned by the state apparatus of the First Roman Empire around the year 400 N and while the west and south of the island were being settled by German peoples. At the other end, the genealogy of the so-called Rosseð dynasty, first royal house of the First Kingdom of Borland (who claimed descend from Victor Rossetus), only becomes more plausible than semi-mythical around 620 N. The two intermediate centuries are frustratingly ill-documented, but the best student responses managed to…