196.5: Alster Almanac

entries taken from "what's on" information for 2026 Spring disseminated by the Alster [Alcester] town council to inform locals and tourists of public (and privately advertised) events in the near future. Alster is a commuter town in Markland around fifteen leagues [30 miles] south of the capital city of Tommarth [Tamworth].

March

...hosted Tuesdaily from the 17th for a course of twelve weeks at the Kit and Toad; single contestants will be admitted to teams for the cost of a round of drinks.

20 Friday–23 Monday: ceremonies and celebrations for the Ides of Breakfast [Eid al-Fitr]. All townspeople are warmly invited in particular to the regular Masket Ball on 21 Saturday, held in the town's Riverbank Masket [mosque]—the second-oldest continuously-operating masket in Markland.

25 Wednesday–26 Thursday, 31 Tuesday: three performances by the Lady Maud Orchestra as part of the Century Tour across all of Albion to mark one hundred years since the orchestra's creation. The programme will include a suite of excerpts from Cráyenschot's opera Ad Pentaculum, as well as a medley of Merch film music through the decades.

April

1 Wednesday: monthly live reading and dramatic enactment at the library. April's story is The Hinterlands, first book in the Kilshaw authors' Samborn Sisters series of fancies by the Kilshaw collective. We recommend this month's event for children aged 3 to 13.

3 Friday: lineball match of our Ash Lads against the Gins, first home game of this year's league and first year in the Second Level. Commemorative red-caps will be free on the door until they run out, and can also be reserved by slate [~smartphone] and quister [phone].

4 Saturday–6 Monday: Easter activities abound—an itinerary of choral services at the Church of the Incarnadine is included below. The parish hall in Aln Magna is also hosting three basket…