198.5: Lexember 2025 - 5: orisontment "set"

orisontment /ˌo.ri.zɔntˈmɛnt/ [ˌo.ʀɪ.zʊntˈmɛnt]
- (astronomy) set, the passage of a celestial body below the apparent horizon;
- conclusion, wrap-up, dénouement, the process of something coming to a close;
- (poetic) old age, dotage, the latter years of life;
- (mathematics) convergence, the property of a sequence or analogous object approaching a particular value

Etymology: Middle Borlish, originally a term of art for the first sense, noun derivation from orisontar "set, pass below the horizon". This comes from orisont "horizon; range, limit, ambit" (since displaced in the first sense by lovacq "horizon", from Arabic), via Latin from Greek ὁρῐ́ζων • horízōn "horizon". In mathematics the term is seen from the eighteenth century.

Cain minut alcot prell'orisontment Jovial?
/ken miˈnɪt alˈkɔt prɛˌlo.ri.zɔntˈmɛnt ʒoˈvjal/
[ken mɪˈnɪt ɐˈgɔt pʀɪˌlo.ʀɪ.zʊntˈmɛnt ʝʊˈvjal]
fall-3p minute how.much before-df=set Jovian
How many minutes is it until the set of Jupiter?

===

The Thirteenth Century

collected notes on various features of the thirteenth century.

Wilhelm Brüz (fl. 1225) was mayor of the city of Augsburg for at least a decade in the first half of thirteenth century. He was a personal friend of Paul von Burchadt, the future first Pope of the Augsburg See, and Brüz's personal ambitions for his city are thought to have influenced some of the religious policy outlines in the Pauline Denuncations of 1225. Brüz was portrayed by Hunter Noteworthy in the 1961 Merch-language film With the North Star to Guide Us, a dramatisation of the events of the German Secession. A magnified statue of Brüz (not based on any extant description or depiction of the man, since none exists) was erected in 1975 outside Augsburg's town hall.

Ivan of Cartaw (fl. ca. 1280) was a lord of Cartaw [Cardiff] who, during his reign, undertook the conquest of the Devon peninsula. Devon had become formally independent from the kingdom of Kernow [Brittany] some decades prior, ruled by a cadet branch of the latter's royal house. Ivan of Cartau's conquest appears to have initially been without the assent or support of his liege King David; nonetheless, the king treated the campaign much like Wales's other territorial gains of the thirteenth century, creating the Tallath of Devon and awarding its rule to Ivan's son Marduth (Ivan having died of an illness shortly after the conquest's completion).

On Unknown Areas Scribed by Arcs (written ca. 1211)  is a work by Tal of Murcia. Containing little original work by the author, it is primarily a translation and compilation of earlier advancements in geometry from Cairene mathemticians. It contains the first attestation of the term mozate "two-dimensional, planar" in its Latinate form muzātus, borrowed from Arabic مُسَطَّح • (musaṭṭaḥ) "flat, even, level".