200.5: Lexember 2025 - 19: quaglar "set"

quaglar /kwɛjˈlar/ [kwɪjˈlɐː]
- curdle, turn, (of e.g. milk) to form curds and no longer flow smoothly;
- clot, coagulate, to change from a liquid to a solid mass;
- set, solidify, stiffen, to become firm or solid in consistency;
- (slang, dated) freeze, be very cold, to be experiencing notably and inconveniently low temperatures

Etymology: direct descendant of Latin coāgulō "I curdle, coagulate", reinforced in the Middle Borlish period by contemporary Portingale or Leon quallo "curds, cottage cheese". The last sense is attested only from the mid-twentieth century and is already rather old-fashioned.

Attenað y zachet vel quaglar oç noit.
/ˌa.teˈnaθ i zaˈkɛt vɛl kwɛjˈlar ɔts nɔit/
[ˌa.tɪˈnaθ i zɐˈkɛt vɛl kwɪjˈlɐː‿ʀɔs nɔit]
wait-2p.sbj df glue will.sbj set-inf s.dt night
Wait for the glue to set overnight.

===

Ruritania

collected notes on the small Central European polity of Ruritania.

Ruritania (Borlish Rurtagn, Bavarn Rürzen, Boham Ruravsko) is a minor polity and one of the easternmost European states which primarily speak some variety of German. It is located to the east of Bavarn [Bavaria], to the south of Bohamy [Bohemia] and to the north of Crain [~Slovenia, southern Austria]. Its capital city is Strelsau, located on the banks of the Danaw [Danube].

Toponymy

The traditional account of the origin of the name Ruritania, as a placename derivative of Latin rūs, rūris "countryside", runs into chronological difficulties. Roman control of the region as the province of Noricum shows no evidence of this toponym, and the earliest attestations of the name in the eleventh century do not appear to be Classically inspired (although the modern form <Ruritania> is almost certainly a folk-etymological classicisation based on this account).

In general, linguists expect that there is a Germanic or Slavic origin for the Rur- root. The Rugii, a Germanic tribe who settled the area in the sub-Roman period, are a tempting proposition, although their short-lived Rugiland cannot explain the second -r- in the name. It is also possible that one of the Danaw's tributaries in the region once had a name like Rur (compare the Rure and the Rudder to the northwest), which lent its name to a valley and eventually a state. Multiple Slavic etyma such as rogozi "reeds, rushes" have also been proposed.

The capital is more tractable, being almost certainly a compound of a Slavic root strēla "arrow" and the Germanic placename suffix -au "meadow, floodplain" (the -s- likely representing a Germanic genitive), thought to be in reference to the straightness of the Danaw in the vicinity of Strelsau.
