201.5: Lexember 2025 - 26: bot "set"

bot /bɔt/ [bɔt]
- sheaf, bundle, bunch, a group of thin objects held together by wrapping or tying;
- bale, a quantity of hay (straw, etc) compressed and tied up for transport;
- (attributive) set, package, (of e.g. a menu or something else bought) comprising several items bundled into a single purchase

Etymology: Middle Borlish, borrowed from contemporary Dutch bote "bundle of flax; tuft". This is likely a derivation from the verb bóten "beat", a descendant of Classical German bautō "I beat, knock, push". In attributive use the word is seen from the late nineteenth century, originally in hotels as a calque from Welsh scub seggo "set menu, (lit.) bundle of dishes".

Y desc bot teyen boncoppessem sur ig l'aus hougr.
/i dɛx bɔt tjɛn ˌbɔn.kɔˈpɛ.sɛm sɪr aj loz huj.r̩/
[i dɛç bɔt tjɛn ˌbɔŋ.kʊˈpɛ.sɐm sɪː‿ʀaj loz hu.jɐ]
df dish set cost-ipf-3p cheap-cmp on cmp 3s=have.sbj.ipf fear
The set menu was cheaper than she'd feared.

===

False Friends (cont. 4)

some more completely arbitrary dictionary entries from the Concise Onomatory o'Merch (fifth edition), a reference work published in 1961 and compiled by the Utcheter Lexical Association.

glade [/glɛːd/ "sunbeam"] n. a ray, a columnar shaft of sunlight as cast through clouds or canopy; further, a moment of optimism during bleakness or of insight during confusion; a phenomenon of light in the sky near the poles due to the interaction of solar dust with air (also aurorick glade). 15C, early Merch glade, glode "ray of sunlight; sunny place", poss. < unknown Old English glǣd~glād "brightness" related to known glæd "shining, bright". Emotional uses are seen 17C; celestial use from 18C.

jackareigh [/ˈdʒa.kə.ɾɛʃ/ "alligator"] n. either of two large swimming reptiles related to the cockadrills [crocodiles] and native to the Novomund and the Chinas. 17C, from Kentish [-/ri/], via Welsh or Willem Dutch from Yengatow [Tupi] yacaré "jack-a-reigh". Final element adapted to reigh "skate [ray]", partly from Old English reohhe "skate" and partly from Old French raie "skate" (the two are probably related).

toward [/ˈtuː.əd/ "future"] adj. still to come, not yet existing or taking place; of a period of time, next or impending; n. times yet to come, as opposed to now or to times which have already passed. Direct descendant of Old English tōweard adj. "still to come", stressed initially in opposition to homographic tōweard prp. "in the direction of" (modern Merch toward [/twaːd/] "facing").

yuckle [/ˈjʊ.kəl/ "mend"] v. to restore to a state of correct or normal operation; to make whole as by the process of healing; to reattach separated pieces of something broken. 14C early Merch yokelen "reattach", frequentative or diminutive of yoken "yoke, harness", from Old English gegeocian "yoke". Probably unrelated to Old English gēocian "preserve, rescue, save".