213.5: Stobor

excerpt from 2004 work Figures of Fable, a compendium of fantastical creatures and beings found in the world's mythology and folklore. Originally published as Sers Fabloses, it was written by folklorist Florença Garaut, who lived most of her life in the New Provincial city of Gorram, and who claimed her interest in folklore arose from the inexhaustible bedtime questions of her triplet children.

…the ever-enigmatic riddles of the sphinx.

Stobor

Stobor is a broad term referring to any beings which arise from the magical animation of artificial depictions of people (or animals, or nonexistent creatures), or which otherwise take the form of animated figurines or dolls. Traditionally and in common usage stobor are miniatures, but in more recent taxonomy the term has been broadened to life-size figures like animated statues (or even, occasionally, larger-than-life colossi).

The word stobor first referred to sprites in the folklore of Awry [~Hungary] and Kiew [~Ukraine] which animated children's dolls, going on miniature adventures of their own or performing helpful or mischievous deeds around the house. It is allied with the modern Majoric [Hungarian] stobroċke "figurine", Bulgar стобо́р • (stobór) "woodcarving, wooden doll" and Lithowan stabá "idol".

Peoples the world over have imagined that the images they create taking on a life of their own. Some of the oldest civilisations created figurines like the Egyptian voshapty [ushabti] or the warriors of Lleswan [Terracotta Army] to act as attendants or guardians in the afterlife. Other peoples have associated intangible spirits with physical representations, like the minx [nkisi] of middle Africa or the assistants of Hephaestus.

The carved wooden figures erected at Norrish [Norse] sacred sites were understood not merely as representations of the gods but as temporary residences: the…
