214.5: Saints Isida

excerpts from The Alphabetical Almanac, an enumeration of Christian saints in alphabetical order along with short biographies and information such as their feast days. Written in 1854 by Christopher "Kipper" Bytheway, a Merch domain historian, the book was lauded for the quantity of original research that Bytheway conducted on his travels and pilgrimages, but was also controversial for eliding most details concerning the saints' miracles.

…twenty-four ravens.

Isida of Toled [Toledo]

Isida of Toled (fl. 1220; feast day April 21) was a nun of the Brethin Order during the twilight of the Single Caliphate's Cairene authority over Andalus. The Brethin House in Toled was a relatively recent incursion into a Christian-majority region of Andalus, but had already accrued a small but influential scholarly community.

She is remembered principally for her work De Mutationibus Linguæ "On the Transformations of a Language", in which she contended that the changes between Latin and vernaculars like Mostara or Barcelon were not the result of corruption or carelessness, but instead comprised divinely ordained—and, vitally, enumerable and consistent—patterns of sound change. Her work anticipated by some margin the comparative method of later scholars. She also appears to have had some command of Arabic and Hebrew, given some references to an incomplete and now-lost companion which may have drawn similar comparisons between those languages.

Isida of Aldegia [Lake Ladoga]

Isida of Aldegia (fl. 1280; feast day December 21; known locally as Siterø) was a princess of the Inger and an integral part of the Baptism of the North. Her marriage to the king of Holmgrod [Novgorod] was contingent on the conversion of the Inger, a pagan holdout. The conversion of the Inger was completed in stages, with the baptism of the elite preceding that of the broader population by some years. Isida is said to have served as interpreter for the Convoy Australier's missionaries during this intermediary period. Her feast day on the winter solstice is held by most historians to reflect a deliberate alignment…
