217.5: Anna-Dorota's Discovery

excerpt from Light and Learning in the Long Peace (Chapter 7: The Glade of Iris), by Merch historian Wilwyn Droppett, published in 1928 through Rotcham [Rochdale] University Primers

…a few years earlier, even in 1816 the span-glass remained primarily a workshop novelty. Hunnady had made thorough observations of the sun during his tenure as Second Lecturer at the Library of Sobjan [Pécs], and his demonstration hall that April was filled with a dozen scholars witnessing the dark bands in the sun's iris [spectrum].

Among them was a young Stiláge Anna-Dorota (1788–1863N), already known for papers on the alignment [polarisation] of reflected light. She remained in Sobjan through the summer, assisting with the grinding of more lenses and the construction of a more portable model. She appears to have been the one to notice the opportunity to observe the sun during an overshadowing [eclipse] later that year in the course of her calculating the timing of additional celestial events for the library's archives.

Stiláge reached Lengrod [Lviv] on November 2 with three assistants. At the time it was a frontier city in the Kingdom of the Danaw contested with Poland. The weather was finer here than to the west, where the Two-Years' Winter was ruining harvests and contributing to political instability, and via a cousin contact she was able to hire a shepherd's hut in the hills of Vennike [Vynnyky], two leagues outside the city and along the projected path of the overshadowing.

With dictation and a maid watching a pendulum clock, Stiláge recorded an obscuration [totality] of 101 seconds. She recounted her observations in a letter in Latin to Hunnady that day, excerpted in translation here.

…extinguished the sun, a wreath appeared at once, drawn into rays as if combed. Tracing at once the aperture, I saw at once the two marks of aquiferous air [hydrogen], yet further (between the 39th and 40th points) a golden spark nearly as bright. Though I am not an alchemist, Lector, I would venture no air [gas] of my acquaintance blazes with such…

This golden spark is, of course, the primary band of the corporal we now call aureol [helium], from the Latin aureola, the crown of saints and of the overshadowed sun). Stiláge and her collaborators in Sobjan published these observations the following year, but were not widely read for another decade due to the disruption of the Second German War and the collapse of the Kingdom of the Danaw.

Stiláge went on to several other discoveries and close correspondence with Wexter Hathwall, whose magnum opus Astraphor [Electricity] and Light included her…
