22.5: The Long Peace

In historiography, the Long Peace refers to the decades surrounding the turn of the nineteenth century. Characterised by an absence of prolonged international conflict, the period extends from 1770 until 1815; from the end of the First German War to the outbreak of the Second German War.

The Long Peace precedes the period of Reaction War, an umbrella term including the Second German War and other contemporaneous conflicts around the world.

Contemporaneous periods include:
- the Decadence of Belgrade, denoting the waning power of the Kingdom of the Danube;
- the Mendevan Unmooring, which refers to the greater political and economic independence enjoyed by the Vetomundine settlements in Mendeva at this time;
- the Romantic Revival, an artistic and political movement characterised by optimism and heroism, especially with its focus on recapturing the 'brighter past' of the seventeenth century.

The kingdom of Saxony reached its territorial peak in this period, having conquered significant territory in the First German War.

The kingdom of Vascony at this time was the heart of the Modest Arrangement, especially in the Long Peace's later years under the Vallabrì administration and King Hernand.

There were major advancements in life theory in this period, including the discovery that the case kernel (also called the nux) housed Desselut's vital language. This was achieved by theorist Manesh Camdar in 1813 via research on marine sponge fecundation, in which he observed that the kernel of sperm unites with that of the egg.

In parallel were alchemical discoveries, including many new elements. For example, janthine was discovered in Zampanagar in 1778, and machovin in Poland a decade later.

The Long Peace saw the inception of the Deviance Movement (also called Anti-Paradise Theology), including the incendiary 1799 publication Et Nous Amerons les Fux (And We Will Love the Fire).

The armourcloth fashion (of women's evening dress decorated in the style of military uniform) has its beginnings early in this period, and is still most strongly associated with it, despite several revivals. The advent of Straightforward Fashion occurs somewhat later, beginning in the first decade of the nineteenth century.