220.5: Events of 1950

notes on various things that occurred in the second half of 1950 (recalling that the Nuntial calendar year begins on March 1).

The film Zachariah was released in odyssey [cinemas] on 1950 September 20 to mixed reviews. A departure from director Kiawaman's usual style, it loosely adapted Petcov's 1838 trevold The Red Man (Majat vCherveno) about thwarting a vampire. The film garnered criticism for abandoning the book's symbolic use of fire and butterflies in favour of extended gory fights and an unsubtle orchestral soundtrack, while others praised the acting and the film's authentic depiction of the postwar Riverine Cities.

The first messages through the Japetos III undersea line were sent on 1950 October 11 from the city of Gadire [Agadir] in western Morrack [Morocco] to near the observatory at Paratzon [St John's] in Brasil [Newfoundland]. The project, a collaboration between the Morrack and Ambrosian governments, took seven years from conception to completion and spanned 1500 leagues across the Atlantic Ocean.

Later that week on 1950 October 13, the Yansieve chamber of the Portingale [Portuguese] government passed a bill to fund research into building threshold force mills [nuclear power plants] in order to reduce dependence on astraphor [electricity] imported from the Drengot Collusion. Proposed by the Mortar coalition, the bill received a last-minute endorsement from the Ministry for Farming, which had previously opposed the technology—since the margin was just three votes, this volte-face was likely critical to the bill's success.

Maya Tavares, a political theorist at the de Sarumptice Diplomatic Edifice and a regular columnist for the Fiellas Dimenja weekly paper, gave a keynote speech on 1950 December 2 in Belgrade on the first day of a week-long event celebrating the centenary of the signing of the Laic Declarations there in 1850. Her talk covered the lasting impact of the Prodigal Faiths, a collection of religious groups who formed in Mendeva [North America] in the early nineteenth century which later sought to establish influence and gain new followers in the Vetomund [Old World].

The derailment of a private convoy [train] on 1950 January 29 occurred on the line between the Hasinic capital of Nadacow [~Natchez, MS] and the Taishan border city of Aberdocolon [~Brazoria, TX] due to an oil explosion. The convoy was transporting King Maldwen Tamaha of Hasiny, who died of the injuries he suffered in the crash. The king was to attend a summit restoring relations between the two polities. Subsequent investigation did not reveal any foul play, but several decades later the idea that the king's grandson Prince Pether orchestrated the event became a popular conspiracy theory.
