222.5: Um, Actually…

excerpt from the answer key for the Conster Open School's 2010 scitation paper on Government in the Drengot Collusion, 1936–61, taken from the quick-fire "In Fact" section. This consisted of incorrect statements; examinees had to identify and correct the mistakes.

. In 1941, the Ministry for Consequences was given the authority to name all proposed acts, laws or regulations.
—While Consequences had this authority in almost all cases, they did not have this power when the legislation was proposed by Consequences itself.

4. During these years, the Ministry for Information was located in a brick-faced building in Roun [Rouen] officially known as the Red House.
—"The Red House" was an entirely unofficial name for 1 rue d'Abiscandre, popularised by newspapers of the Russet Dove writing guild.

5. The Darchild memorandum, made public in 1960, included correspondence from then-leader Romney Darchild discussing the Minstry of Information's discreditable clandestine activities and corruption.
—The memorandum included several missives sent to, but not from, Romney Darchild. Darchild used this fact to unsuccessfully claim ignorance of the Red House's activities during the Furore of 1961.

6. The Collusion imported astraphor [electricity] in this period from polities including Bavarn and Portingale.
—The Collusion was always a net exporter of astraphor; Bavarn and Portingale were two of its many customers.

7. Civic celebrations were held through 1952 to mark the centenary of the formation of the New Urban Mesh, seen as the forerunner to the Drengot Collusion.
—The 1952 celebrations marked the political union of Norman Kent, France and Burgundy in 1852, which predated the formation of the New Urban Mesh by thirteen years.

8. The revolutionary sect known as the Carpenters rose to prominence with the attempted bombing of the 1940 Yansieve conference in London.
—The plot targeted the 1940 state funeral of Honorine Maignard in that city. She was an author, Millstone War veteran and ambassador to Ghana from 1925 to 1935.
