223.5: Chemical Etymology (cont. 5)

further excerpts about gases from the Veriloquace Glossary of Alchemy, a reference quire compiled by Rotcham University Primers [1].

- aphlox n. [/ˈa.flɔks/ "carbon dioxide"] a colourless and unsmelling air which is the principal product of the burning of e.g. plant matter in fresh air, exhaled by animals. 1699 < Scholastic Latin āēr aphlox "aphlox air" < Greek ἀφλόξ • aphlóx "flameless". The term formerly referred to any air in which burning could not occur, gaining its current sense in the late eighteenth century.

- aureol n. [/ˈəu.ʒɔl/ "helium"] the corporal [element] whose atoms have 2 mora [protons], a colourless and unsmelling air which is sparser than any air except aquifer [hydrogen]. 1831 < Scholastic Latin corōna aureola "aureol crown" < Classical aureolus "gilded, golden" < aurum "gold". This is a doublet of aureole [/əuˈʒuːl/ "halo; corona"], which refers both to the crown of light worn by saints and to the crown of light wreathing the sun. The corporal aureol was first observed in the sun's aureole via its iris [spectrum] in 1816.

- ignifer n. [/ˈai.nɪ.fə/ "oxygen"] the corporal whose atoms have 8 mora, a colourless and unsmelling air occurring as one-fifth of air in tesquo and necessary for animal life and for burning. 1699 < Scholastic Latin āēr ignifer "igniferous air" < Classical ignis "flame". The term formerly referred to any air in which burning could occur, gaining its current sense in the late eighteenth century.

- noxal n. [/ˈnɔ.ksəl/ "nitrogen"] the corporal whose atoms have 7 mora, a colourless and unsmelling air occurring as almost four-fifths of air in tesquo. 1772 < Scholastic Latin āēr noxālis "noxal air" < 1674 terra noxālis "muriate of ammony" [NH₄Cl] < c1550 noxaterra < adapted to terra "earth" from c13C Malchassian νοξάτερα < Classical Persian نُشَادِر • nushádir "æq". Noxal air was first isolated in 1772 by combining muriate of ammony with psolic salbrute [KNO₂].

[1] a publishing house based in the city of Rotcham [Rochdale, Greater Manchester] and affiliated with the local university.
