225.5: Cráyenschot in Context

programme notes from the complimentary booklet accompanying the 2026 Century Tour of the Lady Maud Orchestra. This section was penned by Dr Wernycke Belldrop; she is a professor of music at the University of Makerfell [Makerfield, Lancashire] who specialises in the Long Peace period.

Born in Anvers [Antwerp], Ton Cráyenshot (b. 1784 or 5, d. 1841) inherited his interest in Deviance Theology from his father Mickel, who was simultaneously a practising physician, publicly tovaric [gay] and an early adopter of this "anti-Paradise" philosophy in French Guillenne even as the reactionary wave of the Modest Arrangement overtook the region. Outside of circles familiar with Pacific-era composers, his son Ton is remembered best for his short stories (which single-handedly introduced the winter-frost figure of Har Suthock to our folklore) and for a particular melody from his first opera Ad Pentaculum, completed and first performed when he was twenty-nine.

Ad Pentaculum was first performed in the Anvers Showburg on Midwinter's Eve in 1814, and it was advertised as hél vÿvoud "wholly five-fold". It lived up to its claims, comprising five acts each with five scenes, five principal voices (Jochem, Øde, Harbard, Mater Gértie and the Outcast), the five-tone scale representing the Yacht [the Wild Hunt], and finally the music's beat being five-foot [e.g. 5/4 time] throughout.

Jochem, a young Willem clavierman grieving the loss of his sister Øde, hears the Yacht passing one stormy winter night. He looks out, though his mother had warned him in childhood never to do so, and is swept up for the night. The Yacht's leader Harbard, a charming grey-bearded master of disguises, offers a reunion with Øde in exchange for Jochem pledging himself to the ride. Harbard pursues Jochem back in ordinary life, while the nun Mater Gértie continues her admonitions and advice. Finally the ghost of Øde herself encourages Jochem to accept. Jochem leaves for good with the Yacht, twisting Mater Gértie's lessons in a spirit she had not intended.

The opera's afterlife has been as eventful as its plot. By the turn of the twentieth century it had passed out of the regular repertoire, but the melody of the second-act lullaby had been given new lyrics, becoming the midwinter carol known to us in its Merch translation as "A Fieling Winter Come". The work's popularity was revived and endures to this day due to its performance in 1973 at the newly-reopened Anvers Showburg (which had been a casualty of the City Wars, burning down in a collateral fire in 1948).
