226.5: London after the Democratic Wars

from The Alphabetical Albion, an encyclopedia of the political history of Albion [Great Britain] published in 1920 by Winchester Scholastic Primers. It compiled the work of a consortium of historians; section D (The Democratic Wars), from which the below has been excerpted, was principally composed by Heleth Bellamy, sister of the more famous author Clarissa Bellamy.

…a global crisis of legitimacy for the concept of hereditary rule. The deposition of the Kentish monarchy over the course of 1741 to 1746 is perhaps the region's most spectacular development. Nonetheless, the same forces that drove the revolutions and wars to the south also gave London the impetus to declare independence in 1748 (and for its independence to be recognised by its neighbours the following year).

Is it important that London's first monarch as an independent polity, Queen Margaret, was a woman? Any royal who could, as she could, claim familial connections to both the house of Markland and the recently attainted house of Kent would likely have sufficed, but the political convenience of Margaret's specific position cannot be overstated. Markland had been in the habit of bestowing rule of London onto the younger sons of its kings and queens (as Margaret's father was) for the last two centuries. For its part, Kent had never been so much in the habit of queens as Markland was, and so despite the fact that Margaret's mother was the executed Kentish king's sister, she was not considered a likely candidate for revanchist pro-monarchist factions in Kent to rally around.

In any case, like many of the royals who managed to retain their positions in the aftermath of the Democratic Wars (compare the kings of Madray [Madurai] or Nackon Dai [Thailand]), Queen Margaret's political powers were significantly trammelled. The elected position of Lord Mayor, which had garnered ever more influence since the days of the Medieval Imperia, was…

[attached: a map of the borders of the polity of London in 1755 N, some years following the end fo the Democratic Wars in Albion. Its neighbours are Markland to the north, Britain to the west, and Kent to the south.]
