227.5: Merch Colours

excerpt from the afterwords of the Concise Onomatory o'Merch (sixth edition), a reference work published in 2001 and compiled by the Utcheter [Uttoxeter] Lexical Association.

…februum "offerings as a means of purification".

5. Colours

There are generally considered to be twelve fundaminal colour words in Merch; that is, colour words which are not merely specific kinds of a more general colour (for example, the colour "butter" is a pale kind of yellow).

Half of these terms descend almost unchanged in meaning from Classical German [Proto-Germanic] adjectives through Old English.

Merch | white black grene yellow brown grey [/fəit blak griːn ˈjɛ.lə brəun grəi/]
Old English | hwīt blæc grœ̄ne geolu brūn grēg
Classical German | ƕītas blacas grōnis gelvas brūnas grēvas

Two more are German but have undergone minor shifts in meaning. Rud [/ɾʊd/] reflects the Old English noun rudu "rudness", from synonymous rudō in Classical German. Glear [/gleː/] appears to reflect Old English glær "amber", presumably influenced in sense by Old Norrish glær "clear, see-through"; the former comes from Classical German glēsam "amber; glass", related to the latter's origin in glaevis "shining, bright".

Blew [/bləu/] is German in origin—its ancestor is Classical German blēvas "blew"—but it made its way via Frankish into Old French bleu and then via Norman into early Merch bleu; the word's native sibling blo survives in Northumber with the sense "dark-skinned".

The remaining three colour words are of non-German origin. Rose [/ɾuːz/] is seen in the flower sense as early as the tenth century, borrowed from synonymous rosa in Latin, itself presumably connected to the Greek ῥόδον • rhódon "rose". It is first seen as a colour word in the early Merch of the thirteenth century. 

Pursy [/ˈpoː.zi/] is a hybrid form combining two older words. The first is Old English purpul, a borrowing from Latin purpura "the purple shellfish, or a dye produced from it". The second is early Merch perse "a dark blew colour, or a fabric in this colour", a borrowing from synonymous pers in Norman and persecum in contemporary Latin, perhaps referring to a cloth or dye imported from the Persias. These two words merged and acquired the adjective suffix -y (from Old English -ig) to produce the modern form.

Narage [/ˈna.ɾədʒ/] entered early Merch in reference to the fruit, borrowed from Norman narage, narange, which made its way across Europe from Arabic نارنج • nāranj, itself coming via Persian from Sanscrit नारङ्ग • nāranga "narage tree".

6. Dime measures

While the foot and league pre-date the modern system of dime measures by…
