228.5: Crown and Claimant

excerpt taken from Sea-Kings of Damvath: Crown and Claimant in the Dane Supremacy, a political and military history of Dane Borland by Professor Bassanet Hounson of the Borrhatic School of History at Combert, published in 1994.

…northern third of the land had been settled in the Dane fashion across two or three generation, and even that came on the heels of more than a century of viking raids. Eric Wolfson, founder (or at least the first lord) of the fort at Damvath, appears to have been merely the most ambitious of his coterie of local chiefs in eastern Borland, for it was his army which defeated King Jothey's in 898, sending the Roman king into exile with his wife to the petty kingdom of Southbar in the southwest of the island. Later accounts describe Eric as the first king of Dane Borland, and claim that he married a woman (possibly the "ɪᴀᴠʟᴇɴᴀ" mentioned by the Gambrig chronicle) of the exiled Rossetus dynasty.

In any case, Eric sired at least two sons. Rotheton "the Yoke", the eldest, completed the Danish conquest of Borland, storming the forts at Heitrice and Humerstoun and uniting the whole island as a single political unit in 919 for the first time since the Roman Empire. Rotheton is known via early coinage (see "[ʜʀᴏ]ᴆɪᴏᴛᴜɴ ʀᴇx") to have self-styled as "king". A heathen king ruling a majority-Christian population, Rotheton ransacked most of the monasteries, leaving a gap in all but a few precious chronicles.

Rotheton ruled for two more decades. In 935 his firstborn son Allaw perished at sea, leaving an infant Svein and widow Runelt, and so when Rotheton died in 939 the crown passed to the secondborn Hauldan, a young man of no recorded accomplishment who himself died three years later (of flux, according to the Hostilian; of his uncle, according to Gambrig). There remained only Rotheton's brother (Allaw and Hauldan's uncle), Thockel, last remaining son of Eric Wolfson, and he reigned in relative peace. Until 953, when Svein re-enters the historical record on a boat from the north-east.

It is evident that many resented Thockel, for Svein's coup was backed by three separate parties—widowed yet respected Runelt, the new Brethin monastic orders presiding over the re-Christianisation of Dane Borland's higher orders, and the minor chiefs of the northern settlements. Indeed, there would be no reason to doubt that Svein was who he claimed, except that a second young man had claimed the name the previous year and started his own rebellion in the south. The three armies met at Damborn on a summer day of 957 and—if the chronicles are to be trusted—by nightfall only this latter Svein remained standing.

He did not keep the name, whether or not it was truly his. Crowned at Damvath, he was subsequently washed at the Gulfhaven sanctuary and baptised Victor, in reference to the semi-mythical Victor Rossetus, first King of Borland, and himself became the first Christian king of Dane Borland. It was during this new Victor's reign that the historian Hostilian wrote his Historiæ Terrarum Boralensium "Histories of the Borlish Lands". This work includes a list of kings purporting to demonstrate the king's descent from the Rossetus dynasty by means of several names absent from any other…
