232.5: The Machines of Helios

excerpt from Section 13 ("Revitalist Art and Theory") of the condensed study materials (2008 N, fourth edition) for the course Concurrence History of the 16th Century: Death, Ships and the Movement of the Heavens, taught at the New Vithor School and based on the normal itineraries from Cordin Editions.

…the Great Fracture (see Section 7) left Rome in the peculiar position of being governed by the new Triunvirato while the Pope remained an absolute ruler of scattered provinces elsewhere in Italy and Germany. Under the nose of a divided Church too occupied defending its remaining temporal holdings, Rome briefly became a haven for open cosmological speculation.

Martèl fi Bacchero, a mathematician at the library of Saint Jerome, was debating a Sun-centred cosmos in public fora as early as 1552. Secondhand quotes of his arguments from later biographers suggest that he was influenced by Morrack scholarship in particular and by Joseph Alixbillo in particular (who himself drew on Zacki al-Hamid's derivative treatise on circular functions from two centuries earlier).

Bacchero's closest friend was the sculptor Lorenzo dell'Acchedia, and it is to their friendship that we owe I Macchine di Helio ("The Machines of Helios"): a marble figure of the sun-god ringed by the six known planets, displayed in a nearby public square for the first decades of its existence.

The piece became a minor sensation among the merchant classes passing through Italy. A letter of March 1560 from the Dane playwright Absolon Mortenszen, then resident in Alburgh [Aalborg], to the Borlish clothier Anscon d'Aupont, mocks the latter for having "droned on at me for hours" about the sculpture.

Stylised engravings of Helios ringed by his gyring planets begin appearing on the frontispieces and diagrams of astronomical works within a century, and the motif has never quite gone out of fashion since. It appears, considerably flattened, on the cover of the children's primer Tell Me Everything About the Solar System (1936); a variant of the imagery incorporating the Mashick [Mexican] sun-god Tónatif is worked into the iron gate of the astronomy faculty at the University of Anawack [Mexico City]. Local legend tells that a young Coscatl bint Inám had seen an engraving of the sculpture in her youth and personally commissioned the piece, decades before her more famous astronomical accomplishments through the mid-nineteenth century.

At the time of writing, the original sculpture is the centrepiece of the Acaston University's public collection in the old Revitalist hub city of Mysarnos [~Pylos, Greece].
