233.5: The Great Borunesk Meeting

further excerpts from Milda'h Ragner's 1954 popular history Grex Byd: Covarrod y Vaɯr Morɯn (A Girdled World: The Great Borunesk Meeting), a popular account of the 1517 coming together of people from around the world on the island of Borune [Borneo], and the sequence of events that led up to it.


2: Fair of the Turning Winds

…my grandmother's schoolbooks, it was not in honour of its British [~Welsh] and Morrack [Moroccan] guests that the Greet Meeting was convened. At least a century before any merchant ship had rounded Africa, an annual fair had become tradition at Sinquan [Singkawang]. This city on Borune's northwestern coast would fill each year with traders from China, Gurjat [Gujarat] and further afield, who would then remain there until the rain-winds changed their heading and allowed them to return home. The fair and the Chinese quarter pre-date the sultan's conversion and the maskeds [mosques].

Harbour rolls, registers and manifests are scattered now in universities across the globe; an enterprising historian may use them all to reconstruct the gathering of 1517, when al-Casmi's Cynthia arrived to find mac Kellot's Phœbos at anchor. and… 

5: The Fisher-King

…the kingdom of Rhalodony [Rarotonga], al-Casmi makes a rare turn towards the specific. His account of the local legend of a Fisher-King having raised a great land from the sea, and of the direction (southwest at summer's start) thereto, has confused later chroniclers. He does not explain how he came to understand the language, still less to believe their tales; nonetheless he was persuaded.

The Cynthia went southwest and reached the fish-land's coast after sixteen days. The local people did not know al-Casmi's Rhaldonian guests, but knew their tongue, and (after a month of tensions) welcomed the arrivals to Tecamaw [N Island, Aotearoa] as long-lost kin of Havechine [Hawaiki].

In 1516 the ship left, northbound. It made landfall in Bidia [Fiji] and then at last was able to load with long-sought cloves and other spices. It now had two men of Tecamaw aboard, whose future adventures are rightly renowned and whose names are first recorded in Sinquan annals as…

9: Go Forth and Conquer

…word travelled further than any single ship. News of western exploration had reached the Southern Empire [S China] fifty years earlier; in 1520 the Hangthen Edict (行天) declared that if the world could be girdled, China should tie the ropes herself.

Meanwhile the Cynthia and the Orion had returned. Claims from later centuries that they brought with them the disease that would incite the Second Great Dying are  unsustainable. That plague struck the Borlish ports months before…
