24.5: Elsebeth Sneider

collected notes on the life and works of Elsebeth Sneider, author and social campaigner.

Elsebeth Sneider (m. 1772, d. c1830, née Siegert) was an author from Saxony and a pioneer of parachthon romance in general and voidtale in particular. Her most successful work was 1795 trevold Durgh'nen Shorzen Shower (Through a Black Mirror), which sparked the decades-long voidtale craze.

The voidtale craze sparked by this book lasted from the turn of the century until the Second German War, at which point its optimistic and exploratory character dropped rather rapidly out of fashion. Sneider's writings usually featured a heap of different xenic worlds and varied peoples, and the long voyages her characters took to explore them.

In 1772 she married Otto Sneider, scholar at the Stercundhaus in Lepzi.

In her later years she campaigned for reform to Saxony's inheritance law, especially with respect to eldest daughters with no brothers; though her more ambitious goals were ultimately unsuccesful within her lifetime, the political society she founded would go on to spearhead suffrage movements in Saxony, Denmark, and across the Latin republics. 

She also wrote against the nascent Deviance movement, despite her works' popularity with its adherents; in an 1821 letter to her sister she wrote:
    “It is not only their strange ideas and lonely, nihilist universe, dear Thifäne, but that so many of their number have approached me as if I were their most natural ally!”
The fervency of her opinion was visible in her later works, which have a decidedly theological bent.