3.5: Dane Settlements in the Isles

excerpted from the scitation questions given in January 2014 N for the Tremonnow Open School (formerly the Brethin Mesh Institute)'s course in concurrence history titled 844–900: Early Dane Kingdom-Building across the Northwestern Isles, which covers the transition from viking raids along the coasts of Borland, Albion and Ireland to the establishment of permanent Norse communities in those regions.

…writings on language, and discuss to what extent the 'father's name, mother's tongue' hypothesis adequately explains the persistence of Norse names long after the populations of Guile [Gael] and British Danelands were otherwise speaking the local language.

Question 7 (thirty minutes)
Answer any two of the following three questions.

(i) Was it because of the Dane wayports and settlements between Dublin and Yorwick that the principality of Wynneth had the resources to consolidate primacy over Powes? Include reference to the partition of Mondwell [Anglesey] agreed between Wynneth and Sodrick, as mentioned in both the Ulstre and Carlile chronicles.
(ii) What can the life of Owain ap Blethyn—rendered into legend as Owen of Jolliad, sometime-friend sometime-foe of the Arthurians—tell us about the extent to which Welsh-born men participated in viking raids as the Dane settlements became more enmeshed with their vicinities?
(iii) Describe in detail the known actors party to the Reconquest of Legaster in 887 N, along with the political context each found themselves in which led to the idiosyncratic alliances on either side of the battle.

Question 8 (ten minutes)
The recent excavation work near Kilcoughbert [Kirkcudbright, Galloway] has uncovered new evidence of…