33.5: The Wars of Fealty

The Wars of Fealty were a series of conflicts between the polities of Albion in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries which lasted almost fifty years.

History
The traditional account asserts that the Wars of Fealty broke out due to a dispute over the location of the Redstone Chair, a low-backed wooden throne inlaid with a sandstone block said to have been the stone over which the tenth-century Elved Marriage (which ended hostilities between Dane Northumber and Markland for almost a century and on which many subsequent monarchs had been crowned) was solemnised.

As political alliances enmeshed the polities of Albion, over some years the entire island was dragged into the conflict. It threatened to spread further still: France spent nearly two decades with growing animosity towards Kent under the Two Henries to the north, but the two polities reached reconciliation in the early 1490s.

The relatively-new Kingdom of Britain (formed of Wales and its outlying tallaths, along with Kernow and Sodrick) started from a position of strength, and managed to extract many concessions in the early years of the wars. This culminated in the 1483 Battle of Rexam, which expanded the borders of Wales in the north and killed the last Duke of Chestre; after this, Britain was able to avoid the harsher conflicts of the wars' latter years.

In the final years of the Wars of Fealty, a code known as Thieves' Script was employed by the forces of Andrew III of Markland, apparently adapted from similar systems used by gangs of housebreakers in Nottingham. It is remembered today as a very early precursor of codes like steeplescript or modern one-zeffre encoding.

Aftermath
The poorer economic conditions of the Albic polities in the wake of the Wars of Fealty and the ongoing population displacements/migrations throughout the island left them woefully vulnerable to the ravages of the Second Great Dying. Almost twice as many deaths per capita are recorded in Markland and English Kent compared with Norman Kent or Willemy across the British Sea.

The advantageous position of the Kingdom of Britain, by contrast, contributed to the successses of King Howel of Britain's expansion of naval trade (typified by the ship Phœbos circumnavigating Africa and reaching Borune in 1516).

To the east, Borland (never directly involved in the Wars of Fealty) had received an influx of immigration from Albion, as people were displaced in the many border conflicts and attempted conquests. In particular, this period saw substantial Devoner and Kernish immigration to the cities of southern Borland.