35.5: Verona & War

Verona is a city in the north-east of the Italian peninsula.

History
During the tenth century and into the time of the Second Tetrarchy, Verona and its province were contested between the Kingdom of the Lombards (and latterly, Lombardy) and the German Empire. The Verona branch of the Adelchian dynasty ruled Lombardy during the eleventh century.

In the late twelfth and early thirteenth centuries, Verona was part of (and the most prosperous city in) the duchy of Furlain.

Verona was badly affected by the Second German War of the early nineteenth century. The arena in Verona, a classical amphitheatre, was reopened for performances shortly after the end of the war.

People
Chiarina Bruno (fl. 1824), librettist and composer who wrote the opera Wings Afire
Jacob III (1087-1130), king of Lombardy, who was the last of the Verona branch of the Adelchians to grow up in Verona

---

The Second German War (1815–23) was a conflict centred on German lands but involving almost all the polities of Europe. It took place in the early nineteenth century and marks the conventional end of the Long Peace. This war is considered part of the global phenomenon of Reaction War, which includes politically unrelated but contemporaneous conflicts around the world.

Although Vascony at first managed not to become embroiled in the conflict, once its interests in Mendeva and the East were threatened, then-king Hernand IV had no choice but to declare against the Northern Concert and in favour of the Convoy.

Borland participated in the war, with Borlish soldiers present alongside Bavarn and Furlaine fighters at the disastrously mismanaged Battle of Hulm in 1821.

The Northern Concert were a major power involved in the war, and they were allied with Borland, not uncontroversially—the alliance sparked many mozard protests in cities across the country.

The Kingdom of France was seen to have profited unjustly from the Second German War, gaining significant territory while (according to many) not investing much manpower or material resources.

In the 1820s and 30s, immigration to the Novomund (and especially to New Provence) spiked from those countries which had been most devastated by the war.