48.5: 2nd Lexember

sarzin "buckwheat"

sarzin /sarˈzɪn/ [sɐːˈzɪn]
- (obsolete) Muslim, Saracen, a person who is a follower of Islam;
- (archaic or dialect) non-Christian, pagan, practioner of a religion other than Christianity and especially one performing practices associated with pre-Christian peoples or peoples not yet exposed to Christianity;
- (historical) cairn, a conical heap of stones placed by the pre-Roman Kelt people around Borland or a modern such heap resembling these;
- (historical, by extension) milestone, a pillar or pile of stones placed at the side of a road to mark distance;
- buckwheat, an originally Asian plant whose fruit is widely used in cooking as a pseudocereal

Etymology: in its only surviving modern sense, a clipping of the earlier bla sarzin "Saracen wheat" which is first attested in the fifteenth century, in reference to its eastern origin (the plant having been brought to Europe via the Turkish Riyalid Sultanate or possibly via Russian Cazany).

Likewise, in the senses "cairn, milestone" it is a clipping of pieðr sarzin "Saracen stones", from the perception that these piles of stones were pre-Christian monuments to pagan gods.

The word itself is a borrowing from Old French sarrazin "Muslim, Saracen" reflecting Late Latin Saracēnus and Ancient Greek Σᾰρᾰκηνός (Sarakēnós). These originally referred to an Arabic or para-Arabic people of North Arabia.

Y cociner ença voug cas hojol ne sarzin.
/i ˌko.tsiˈnɛr ɛnˈtsa vuj kaz hoˈʒɔl ne sarˈzɪn/
[i ˌkɔ.tsɪˈnɛːʀ‿ɪnˈtsa ˈvuj kaz hʊˈʝɔw ne sɐːˈzɪn]
def cook start-ipf wrong wrt pancake in buckwheat
The cook was terrible at buckwheat pancakes.

---

excerpt from The Delicious Story of Dough and Oil, a work of popular history detailing the history of many related foods across the globe. Published (originally in Awrish as Tésta Olaivan Vláxerte "A World of Dough in Oil") in 1963 by first-time writer and famed chef Shomoji Taxon, who in his later years would go on to present the first cooking programme shown simultaneously on both sides of the Atlantic.

…see its eastern origins by its names in the languages of Europe—whether in Horther møurick ("Moorish wheat") or Bavarn creshke (originally from a Russian word meaning "Greek"). Nonetheless, sarzin [buckwheat] flour has since its introduction become a key component of diets across the continent.

We turn first to a dish which originated in Vallack communities and spread west upriver as the region was united politically under the Kingdom of the Danaw [Danube] during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Even after the kingdom's collapse and the rise of the Riverine Cities in the nineteenth century, farama dry-pottage has remained an important tradition from Pojon [Bratislava] to Gollamo [Ruse].

Farama seems originally to have been associated with wedding anniversaries, as an inexpensive (at least, before the recipe was augmented with unseasonal berries or spices like dallasine [cinnamon]) of celebrating each passing year. Over time the traditions around farama have shifted; in many places the sarzin dish is now served on birthdays.

Along with the area's distinctive hodgel-cakes [in this case, blini], farama enjoyed an explosion in popularity worldwide (usually divorced from its vicine traditions) after their prominent inclusion in the film…