50.5: 16th Lexember

baugl "campsite"

baugl /bojl/ [ˈbo.jʊ]
- camp, campsite, an outdoor place acting as a temporary accommodation either in tents or entirely outdoors;
- improvisation, kludge, stopgap, patch, a temporary set-up formed by convenience or due to time constraints that one intends to replace with something more permanent

Etymology: from Old Boral bavȝl (probably /bawʎ/) "tent, campsite", cognate with Cambrick pabell "tent" in coming via a Kelt form (the Borland reflex exhibiting characteristic initial voicing) from Latin pāpiliō "butterfly, (later) tent". In the latter sense the word is seen from the sixteenth century, originally with reference to a room's hasty arrangement of appliances/furniture or similar processes that resemble the ad-hoc set-up of a campsite.

Indigneð mey noc dell'oc baugl van.
/ˌɪn.dajˈnɛθ mi nɔk dɛˈlɔk bojl van/
[ˌɪn.dɐjˈnɛh mi nɔ ˌdɛ.lʊ ˈbo.jʊ van]
begrudge-sbj.2p 1s neg of-def-s.px camp vain
Don't hold this bad set-up against me.

---

opening of an 1813 letter sent by Dorothe Shock, proprietress of Miszen [1] emporium De Marnoshring, to her mother Johanne in her home village of Siorow. This missive is taken from the collected correspondence kept in trust at the Marnosh Gravatory [archives], the enterprise having grown dramatically from a single shop selling trinkets to a quasipolitic guild [multinational corporation] controlling much of the market for children's toys and various material hobbies. 

My dearest mother,

First I must reassure you that [her brother] young Crazi has arrived in Miszen safe and in good spirits. He has not taken to commerce as enthusiastically as you had hoped (or at least not as well as he has taken to nights out with soldierly friends and woodheaded mornings!) but his allegedly-charming features seem to have contributed to a string of advantageous deals with the usual suppliers.

You shall I expect be unsurprised to hear that the Potchware [2] woodcarvings refuse to be bought at even half the cost of importing them (never mind Hamburg's stanglehold on the Elbe); eventually I managed to convince a particuarly-credulous customer from Crovatia that they were the only attested artworks of a remote people of Chrysia, which limited our losses to an acceptable amount.

The mayor continues to promise better roads out west to Lepzi—it is nonsensical that one cannot make the journey in a day and must suffer an uncomfortable night in the only Ossatz lodginghouse with tolerable chambermaids. I cannot see that such projects will find funds for themselves so long as the garrison demands its gold, and so long as the Boheme menace rattles its sabre across the southern…

---

[1] An urban regional centre in Saxony on the site of our Meissen.
[2] A staddomain in Cappatia [South America] known at the time for its sugar and cocoa exports, and not (yet) renowned as a centre of artistic expression.