51.5: 23rd Lexember

taus "rate"

taus /toz/ [toz]
- rate, speed, the rapidity at which some process takes place;
- value, worth, the quality which renders someone or something desirable or valuable;
- (rare) price, cost, the monetary quantity needed to pruchase an item

Etymology: from Old Boral taus "tax, price", deverbal of taussar "to impose a tax on" borrowed from Old French and reflecting Latin taxō "I handle, charge, appraise, reckon" (compare modern French taux "level, amount, quantity" with an etymological respelling).

Taus gran alcot es y molin rouð faint la?
/toz gran alˈkɔt ɛz i moˈlɪn ruθ fent la/
[toz gʀan ɐˈgɔt ɪz i mʊˈlɪn ʀuh fen la]
rate big how.much be.3s 3s mill wheel make-p.prs there
At what rate does the factory make wheels?

---

excerpt from the introduction of Modern Developments in Benjamine Detaxion [Aromatic Synthesis], a 1942 quire written by alchemist Ferris Bewly through the Conster Health Edifice and intended to provide a reference on the recent synthesis of various new substances and medicines around the world.

…Jawan frankincense.

The first major section of this work will cover those hebetant substances [painkillers] which have come out of workshops globally over the last two decades. The sterling example is undoubtedly cozebdo-diamaschal benjamine (CD) [1], sold under various names and perhaps most familiar to Markland as the coveted 'Tommy pills', is a product of collaboration between the Branwen Sanatory in New Leudong and the University of Rimack in Tavancy [2] to find hebetants with faster action and fewer adversions.

Comprising (as the longform name implies) branches of cozebdone oil and maschal [3] in opposed position, the substance was first synthesised in 1932 and has already surpassed salix-derivative pills [4] in annual sales everywhere from Sangathy to Adighe [5]. This is due to the former's greater efficacy in relieving pain, which finds it more widely used than the previous bevy of remedies which may merely help to reduce symptoms of fever.

In sufficiently high concentrations CD has also been demonstrated to function in unguento, although the inefficiency and commodity of this…

---

[1] Here the longform unambiguous name for ibuprofen.
[2] Polities in southeastern Chrysia [Australia] and northwestern Cappatia [South America].
[2] Or as we would call them, isobutane (2-methylpropane) and propionic (propanoic) acid.
[4] For example, aspirin.
[5] Polities in far-inland Mendeva [North America] and the Caucasus.