54.5: Medieval Mathematics

Nadim of Trapoles (fl. c12) was a mathematician at the Observatory in Trapoles, which at the time was a major Middlesea port for the Single Caliphate during the Second Tetrarchy. He is remembered for formulating the Trapolitan identity

[image]

which allows one to multiply two quantities using only addition, subtraction and enumerations of arrhumb [cosine tables].

---

Jambor of Hungary (fl. c12) was an early king of Hungary following the state's succession from the principality the century before. He oversaw significant expansion of Awrish influence, entering into personal union with eastern principalities such as Halich and Vallack, and becoming an ally of the Malchassian Romans to the south.

The great Library of Sobjan was built during his reign, an enduring gravatory of contemporary works. These included mathematical texts from the Single Caliphate which were at that time being translated into Latin in great quantities.

---

Saint Marinus (Italian: San Marino) is a historical city in the Italian state of Lombardy. It is recognised for the renowned Autonome University, which having been founded in the eleventh century is one of the oldest still-running educational establishments in the world, and especially for its Sovereign Library on the slopes of Titan.

Scholars of the Autonome University were among the first to translate many mathematical texts from Arabic into Latin; for instance, they compiled a liber numerorum in 1216 N which (surviving in a copy at the Library of Sobjan) contains the earliest-known enumeration of arrumb values in Europe.
People

    Jovanna Ariperto (fl. 1998), deixist researcher at the Autonome University of Saint Marinus
    Dijaca Rofotto (fl. 1997), historian of medieval religion for the Sovereign Library
    Lluprando da Treviso (fl. 1491), engineer at the Sovereign Library remembered for his work on the augrim of mozate forms