6.5: The Mysarnos Codex, cont.

further excerpt from history book The Mysarnos Problem: the Enigma of an Inconvenient Codex, written in 1943 by classical historian Theodora Riphæna.

…north of the city furthermore led to a theological flourishing both before and after the Great Fracture which so severely hobbled the Roman Papacy.

The name of the city itself is usually held to refer to the venerable maple trees for which region has been known since Classical times; most suggestive is modern Welsh mysarn "maple wood", but also compare Kentish mazre, Vascon mausòn "maple".

The author of the Mysarnos Codex has never been conclusively identified, and this book will not pretend to have done so; what is relatively certain is that it was composed—or at least first stored—at the Library of Saint George the Martyr, one of the largest buildings within the aforementioned church complex. What is frustrating is that we have access to extant and complete membership records for the various monasteries and other institutions in the area for almost the entire sixteenth century, and biographical information for many among them. Nonetheless, no mention is made by any of the surviving chronicles of the production of the Mysarnos Codex.

Originally comprising over two hundred illustrated vellum folios lined with incomprehensible but clearly meaningful symbols (at most 200 different glyphs—occasionally it can be difficult to tell if two glyphs are merely stylistic variations of each other or different glyphs entirely—appear through the entire codex), the text has baffled historians and linguists for centuries. The illustrations range from the utterly mundane to the fantastical; on either side of a spread one might see both a field of poppies and armoured men on the backs of four-winged dragons. Assuming the text must refer in some way to these depictions, many have tried to…