64.5: First Drengot Empire

The First Drengot Empire, or occasionally the Constant Empire, was the westernmost of the four empires comprising the Second Tetrarchy (also the Medieval Imperia). At its greatest extent it claimed control over much of Albion and most of Gaul. Its major vassals were the kingdoms of Northumber, Markland, Kent, Greater Devon, France and Burgundy, along with several lower-ranking demesnes.

The Empire is named for its ruling family House Drengot, formerly rulers of Normandy alone. The lesser-used name Constant Empire has been employed sporadically by historians or propagandists attempting to claim the prestige of the Classical-era District of Constantius, which occupied roughly the same geographical extent.

The structure of the Empire was quite decentralised; see for example the standing army kept by vassal Tolose for its perennial skirmishes with neighbouring Barcelon. The emperor usually held court in Paris (moved during the eleventh century from Roun)

History

The beginnings of the First Drengot Empire lie with the Kernovan Conjuring, through which the House of Drengot in Normandy invaded and conquered Kent with the support of Greater Devon's House of Kernow. As recompense for their support, the Drengots helped install the House of Kernow on the Devoner throne. This invasion was triggered by the death of the elderly patriarch Rodulf of Kent, who had ruled since childhood for nearly eight decades.

The Empire was most stable in the decades around the turning of the twelfth century, having reached its greatest territorial extent. However, by 1120 much of the treasury had been spent on defending the long eastern border with Willemy. In particular, the construction of a new Great Castle at Vésonçon had been completed the year before, the last point in a defensive line spanning from Flanders to the Alps.

In 1170 the Kingdom of Burgundy ceased to be a vassal of the First Drengot Empire, due to the political turmoil of the Emergency at Dijon.

The First Drengot Empire formally ceased to exist in 1191 upon the death of Daniel IV; his demesne was divided between his immediate family and his allies.

Emperors

Nathaniel II (fl. 1067), who quashed a popular uprising in Flanders
Roger II (fl. 1121), under whose aegis Devon attempted to invade Wales without success
Daniel IV (d. 1191), last ruler of a united Drengot Empire