70.5: Monks and Metropoleis

The Jacobin Fraternity (Borlish Fraterntað Jagovin), historically also known as the Order of Saint James, is a religious organisation based in the city of Axbane on the south coast of Borland.

The Fraternity were founded in tenth-century Flanders under the patronage of Amelia of Bruges. In the eleventh century they were implicated in a local popular uprising against Drengot Emperor Geoffry II and forced to flee over the sea to Borland. There they built the Peninsular Monastery which still overlooks Axbane.

Funds from the Fraternity contributed to the Jacobin Estates on the outskirts of Damvath, which on their completion in the late eighteenth century became the fixed location of Borland's parliament.

Today the organisation is known mostly for the guild they own, Jaibos Breweries, as well as for owning significant lands in the city (including the site of one of the ancient Roman bathhouses there).

---

The Riverine Cities were an alliance-federacy of small independent states along the Danaw River and its tributaries linked by treaty and trade in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Each state consisted primarily of a single urban area and the surrounding rural hinterland, though the enforcement of territorial borders was often rather nominal.

The political structure of the Riverine Cities grew out of the ashes of the Kingdom of the Danaw, which had collapsed in spectacular fashion after the Second German War of the 1820s.

The Cities were a hotbed for underground or subversive organisations, including the Deviance movement, and were host to several semi-public tovarick communities. This environment was likely fostered by the presence of significant religious minorities and the strong ties between the Church and the local urban authorities.

Members of the Riverine Cities included Belgrade, Boxa, Gollamo and Pojon.