71.5: Threshold force

Threshold force [nuclear fission power] is the force derived from splitting the nuxes [nuclei] of atoms. The name 'threshold' refers to the so-called 'threshold heft [mass]' of an unstable substance like killdark [uranium], above which one has a self-sustaining detaxion [1].

History
The story of threshold force begins in 1902, with the discovery of the atomic nux—that is, the discovery that almost all of the heft of an atom is located near its centre. This took place at the Nÿstad Atellier (then privately owned and run by substantial theorist [2] Lohic Courvoisier de Nÿstad) in the Cappatian city of Warnøw [3].

The first threshold mills capable of supplying force for general use were in operation by the 1960s. These, and the unsettling martial applications of threshold force which had already been demonstrated on a small scale, brought the concept of harmful shortform luxes [gamma rays] into the popular consciousness. Many a blacklayer [horror movie] of the period and thereafter features unstoppable invisible rays inflicting horrors on the characters.

The corporal used in the vast majority of threshold mills, killdark, was first isolated in the early nineteenth century in the Irish shire of Killdara (whence, via Welsh kildárc 'from Killdara', the substance's name).

Portingale was a pioneer of threshold force, funding research into its effectivity in the 1950s in a bid to reduce their dependence on astraphor [electricity] exported by the Drengot Collusion. The polity's efforts were repaid in full; Portingale became a net exporter of astraphor in the 1970s.

References

Lux Æterna: The First Century of Threshold Force, written in 2002 by Cawen ba Dirxen

---
[1] a generic term describing any process involving the change of one thing into another; synthesis, reaction.
[2] a chemist focused on the properties and structures of atoms and single molecules.
[3] from a *Dutch rendering of *Guaraní + øw 'island', located where Vitória (ES), Brazil is.