75.5: Burgundy

Burgundy (Burgund French Borgogne /bɔgˈgɔɲɛ/) is a polity in Gaul, situated south of France, west of Bavarn, north of Provence and east of Vascony. It has for most of its history been ruled from the city of Geneva.

History

During the Second Tetrarchy period of the eleventh and twelfth centuries, Burgundy was a major vassal of the First Drengot Empire. Following the Emergency at Dijon in 1170, which presaged the collapse of said empire, Burgundy became a de facto autonomous kingdom.

In the early fifteenth century with the Vascon Ascendancy, Burgundy lost its Middlesea coast to Vascony. Burgundy managed to wrest the territory of Provence back from Ascendant Vascony in 1494. This would however be a very temporary state of affairs: the region seceded with the 1497–99 War of Provincial Independence, ending in Burgundy's defeat at the Battle of Margès.

No longer having any coastal territory, Burgundy weathered the Second Great Dying, which began in 1519, comparatively well; the principal vector of plague transmission was via naval trade. This relative stability may be related to the kingdom's (unusually late for the region) formal retention of the feudal system until the dawn of the seventeenth century.

The title of King of Burgundy was dissolved after severe losses to neighbouring Bavarn in the Blue Trans-Willem War of the late seventeenth century. The former capital Geneva became a subordinate city in the Duchy of Far Suebia.

A polity named Burgundy was formed once more (now without a monarch) in the nineteenth century, as part of the diplomatic process leading to the formation of the Drengot Collusion.