78.5: The Good Game period

The Good Game period refers to the final decades of the nineteenth century, especially when construed as a time of rising global powers formed of alliances and meshes of trade and technology binding the world together. It conventionally follows the Global Workshop period of spreading industry and ends with the outbreak of the Millstone War.

The same Laic Declarations of Belgrade in 1850 which prefigured the social and moral shifts of the Household Renovation also set the stage for the political realignment of the Good Game decades, which new alliances between states that could not have countenanced such ties even a generation earlier.

This period sees the establishment of several alliance-federacies that would go on to define the geopolitics of the twentieth century, such as the Drengot Collusion in north-western Europe (whose expansion concluded in 1894 with the accession of Borland).

The perception of the Good Game period as a time of glamorous espionage and political machinations behind closed doors is not entirely deserved—compare the popular perception (via books and film) of the 1887 Desarden affair involving a London ambassador and the king of Nackon Day with the tawdrier reality. Nevertheless, the period has cemented itself as a popular setting for spycraft and masquira stories.

The kevler romance arose as a distinct subgenre of masquira in this period, featuring elaborate plans and schemes usually aiming to steal some priceless item.

The 1880s saw a brief fad for 'Morrack fashion' in countries across Europe and the Novomund, in areas such as dress, architecture and food. There was, for example, a trend of incorporating exposed stonework draped in tapestry and curtains in contemporary buildings.

Scientific and technological advances of the Good Game period include discovering other galaxies, determining the normal speed, the first household mesh-linked tachygraphs, and stauron retainers.