87.5: Merch

Merch is an English language of the German family of languages which evolved on the island of Albion. It is closely related to other English languages like Kentish and Wessern, and is the primary language of the polity of Markland.

Contemporary Merch descends form the Early Merch spoken in Markland, which itself descends from Anglian varieties of Old English.

This article principally describes the acrolect of Merch spoken in and around the capital city of Tommarth.

Phonology
Consonants
The consonant phonemes found in Merch are:
/m n/
/p t tʃ k/
/b d dʒ g/
/f θ s ʃ h/
/v ð z/
/w l ɾ j/
and they are subject to the following orthographic conventions:

b d f h k l m n p t v w z represent their IPA symbols.
j r y represent /dʒ ɾ j/ respectively.
c usually represents /s/ before i e y and /k/ elsewhere.
awice /əˈwəis/ "indeed" < OE ġewiss "certain"
coholl /kʊˈhɔl/ "sulfide" < Ar كُحْل "kohl"
g usually represents /g/ but may represent /dʒ/ before i e y.
eagre /ˈeː.gə/ "acid" < L ācer
nargill /ˈnaː.dʒɪl/ "coconut" < Ar نَرْجِيل "coconut palm"
girl /geːl/ "young person"
q appears almost always in the diagraph qu to represent /kw/.
quoit /kwəit/ "tyre, torus"
s represents /z/ between vowels and word-finally (unless doubled), and /s/ otherwise.
Brasil /bɾəˈzɪl/ "Newfoundland" < Ir Breasail
betimes /bɪˈtəimz/ "earlier"
surblavick /soːˈblɛː.vɪk/ "ultraviolet" < L blavus "blue"
x represents /gz/ between vowels, and /ks/ otherwise.
- oxy /ˈɔg.ziː/ "stubborn"
- œculux /ˈɛ.kjəˌlʊks/ "EM radiation" < Gr οἶκος "house", L lux "light"
There are several digraphs of letters with -h: ch gh ph sh th wh.
ch usually represents /tʃ/, but sometimes also /k/.
chalk /tʃalk/ "chalk"
yacht /jakt/ "cult" < Du jaght "hunting party"
gh usually represents either /ʃ/ (following i) or /f/ (following u).
wight /wɪʃt/ "person" < OE wiht "thing, creature"
ough /uːf/ "bad" < OE wōh "wrong, crooked"
NB I'ght /ˈəift/ "I must", contracted from I ought
ph represents /f/.
aphlox /ˈa.flɔks/ "carbon dioxide" < Gr ά- "without" and φλόξ "flame"
sh represents /ʃ/.
shaken /ʃɛːkə/ "to shake"
th usually represents either of /θ ð/, and sometimes /t/.
thrift /θɾɪft/ "energy" < ON þrift "prosperity"
yeathre /ˈjeːðə/ "together" < OE geador
wh represents /f/.
- white /fəit/ "white"
There are several situations in which written consonants may be silent.
In certain endings: participle -end /ən/, infinitive -en /ə/, superlative -est /əs/.
discurrend /dɪˈskʊ.ɾən/ "different" < L discurrēns "roaming"
chammen /ˈtʃa.mə/ "to chew" (poss. onomatopoetic)
tharvest /ˈθaː.vəs/ "least sociable" < OE þeorf "unleavened"
Coda r lengthens the preceding vowel and word-final -re is pronounced /ə/.
interpel /ɪnˈtɛː.pəl/ "interact with" < L interpellō "I disturb"
sundre /ˈsʊn.də/ "many" < OE sundor "separately"
Post-tonic -st- immediately before a closed syllable is pronounced /s/.
hirstend /ˈheː.sən/ "extra" < OE hyrstan "to ornament"
pistol /ˈpɪ.səl/ "message" < L epistola
Likewise, post-tonic -v- is lost in some common words.
morovre /mʊˈɾoː(ə)/ "as well"
evre /ɛː(ə)/ "always"
Vowels
The vowels of (this variety of) Merch comprise the short vowels:
/a ɛ ɪ ɔ ʊ ə/
the long vowels:
/aː ɛː eː iː ɔː oː ʉː/
and two diphthongs:
/əi əu/
which are subject to the following orthographic conventions:

In stressed syllables, "short" a e i~y o u represent /a ɛ ɪ ɔ ʊ/ (noting that schwa cannot be stressed).
samn /samn/ "set, collection" < OE samnian "gather"
whelp /fɛlp/ "baby animal"
quick /kwɪk/ "awake"
thon /ðɔn/ "one, someone", contracted from the one
bulk /bʊlk/ "cargo"
In unstressed syllables, a e i~y o u instead represent /ə ə~ɪ ɪ ʊ ʊ/—except word-finally, where /ɪ ʊ/ become /iː ə/.
defectend /dɪˈfɛk.tən/ "positively charged"
behemoth /bɪˈhiː.mʊθ/ "hippopotamus"
costumery /kʊˈstjəu.mə.ɾiː/ "fashion plate"
"Long" a e i~y o u represent /ɛː iː əi uː jəu/.
- besake /bɪˈzɛːk/ "because"
- mete /miːt/ "standard, gauge" < OE metan "measure"
- ty /təi/ "to join"
- poke /puːk/ "container" < OFr poque "bag"
- huge /hjəudʒ/ "huge"
There are plenty of digraphs representing vowels.
Coda -r: ar er ir or ur represent /aː ɛː eː oː oː/.
davarn /dəˈvaːn/ "grand hotel, resort" < W tafarn "inn"
-a: ea oa represent /eː oː/.
roaden /ˈɾoː.də/ "to travel"
-e: ee ie ue represent /iː əi jəu/.
conspue /kʊnˈspjəu/ "to deride" < L cōnspuō "I spit upon"
-i/y: ai ei oi and ay ey oy represent /əi əi~iː əi/.
fain /fəin/ "willing(ly)"
-o: oo represents /uː/.
soon /suːn/ "as soon as"
-u/w: au eu ou and aw ew ow represent /əu əu əu~uː/.
blew /bləu/ "blue"
coshow /ˈkɔ.ʃuː/ "rubber" < Quechua kawchu
Examples
A jalicked knave bought a new quistre.
/ə ˈdʒa.lɪ.kəd knɛːv bɔft ə nəu ˈkwɪ.stə/
A guy in a tuxedo bought a new phone.

Aquifex is the temendest corporal.
/ˈa.kwɪˌfɛks ɪz ðe ˈtiː.mən.dəs ˈkoː.pʊ.ɾəl/
Hydrogen is the most abundant element.

Do thy breches of and put thysen abed!
/duː ðəi ˈbɾiː.tʃəz ɔf ən pʊt ðəiˈsɛn əˈbɛd/
Take off your clothes and get in the bed!

By way o'dreend al therin ough, he asked "As swich?"
/bəi wəi əˈdɾiː.ən‿dal ðəˈɾɪn uːf | hiː ˈa.skəd | az swɪtʃ/
While doing everything wrong, he asked "Like that?"

Psolick tersures may breken wines brewing of.
/ˈsɔ.lɪk ˈtɛː.zjəz məi ˈbɾiːkə wəinz ˈbɾəwɪŋg ɔf/
Sulphites can stop wine fermentation.
