93.5: Lexember 2023 - 1: ceu "basically"

ceu /tsaw/ [tsaw]
- basically, essentially, pretty much, in effect, for all intents and purposes, not literally but sufficiently close that any difference is irrelevant;
- like, kinda, sorta, a filler word used to hedge a statement;
- (in negative sentences) hardly, barely, only just, to a minimal extent

Etymology: from Middle Borlish, original a legal term of art used to distinguish an act from a legally distinct act with the same consequences or punishment. In this use it was borrowed from Latin ceu "just like, just as if, as (if) it were". By the eighteenth century it had moved into general use, along with the innovated negative sense (originally restricted to the phrase ceu nien "barely anything, almost nothing").

Remanen ceu alcun toscivr ag platabac.
/ˌre.maˈnɛn tsaw alˈkɪn toˈxɪ.vr̩ ɛj ˌpla.taˈbak/
[ˌʁe.mɐˈnɛn tsaw ɐˈgɪn tʊˈçɪv‿ʀɛj ˌpla.tɐˈbak]
remain-ipf-3p barely none sandwich at.def sideboard
There were hardly any sandwiches left on the buffet table.

---

Sodrick (Merch /ˈsɔ.drɪk/, Welsh Heleð /heˈlɛð/) is a region of the Northwestern Isles comprising many small islands north of Wales and west of Scotland.

Toponymy
The name Sodrick was originally a demonym for the people of Soder (Old English Sodor), which descends from the Old Norse suðreyjar "southern islands".

History
Sodrick was settled during the Norse ascendancy of the eighth and ninth centuries, at the same time as Danes arrived on the shores of Albion and Ireland. Harald the Blue of Sodrick contributed to the establishment of the Kingdom of Scotland in the ninth century. Even the Welsh island of Mondwell was half controlled by Sodrick for some time after a partition agreed between Sodrick and Wynneth that was recorded in both the Ulstre and Carlile chronicles.

During the tenth century, the kingdom of Dunclothe under Roderick invaded and conquered many of the isles of Sodrick from the Danes, including Arran in 934 and (most significantly, as a power centre) the isle of Man in 942. The decline of Dane power in Sodrick has been connected to the decreased efficiency of obtaining wealth by raiding over time.

As Dunclothe took control of Sodrick, many fled or were expelled to places like Dane-ruled York and Ireland, or to relatively prosperous Normandy. Among their number is recorded the first unambiguous mention of identical triplets (Danes born on the isle of Mull around 915) in European history.

By the fifteenth century, Sodrick was subordinate to Wales, and it was incorporated as an outlying tallath of the Kingdom of Britain when it was formed.