94.5: ouç "silence"

ouç /uts/ [us]
- silence, peace, quiet, tranquility, the absence of sound;
- rest, repose, leisure, free time, time free from work or other duties

Etymology: from Old Borlish oç, ouç "leisure, ease, idleness", which reflects Latin ōtium "time free from activity, time avoiding activity". The shift to meanings directly involving the lack of noise had occurred by the sixteenth century.

Cay ouç ny majon livr.
/ke uts ni maˈʒɔn ˈli.vr̩/
[ke us ni mɐˈʝɔn ˈli.vɐ]
fall silence in-df house book
The library is silent.

---

Cordin Editions (Borlish Edition Cordin /ˌe.diˈtsjɔn kɔrˈdɪn/) is a publishing house founded in the mid-twentieth century and based in the city of Cordin on Borland.

The company, which is affiliated with the University of Cordin, is recognised for producing educational books for national schools. It also published syllabi covering schooling throughout childhood which were taken up as a standard by most schools in the polity.
Publications

    The Boral Province in the century after Hadrian (Y Provinç Boral par y siecr posc Hadrian, 1952), written by late classical historian Robiaut Scarvon
    The Story of Borland (Y Stoir d'Istr Boral, first edition 1982, second edition 1993), a school history textbook
    Shepherds of Hambrick: the Small History of Dane Borland (Acr a Sauð Vellig, 2008), written by Sconet Ydreç about Borland in the tenth century
    From Tablets to Touchscreens: The Story of Education (Des Delt vars Dois: Y Stoir d'Education, 2016), written by Theign Roufler in the style of an academic textbook but intended to be read by a large lay audience

---

Southbar (Borlish Sothbar /sɔθˈbar/ [sʊhˈbɑː]) is a region of Borland in the southwest of the island. Its largest population centre is the city of Axbane.
History

The petty kingdom of Southbar was founded by Anglian immigrants in the fifth century, along with Angland and several more minor kingdoms. It quickly established itself in opposition to Angland and to the rump sub-Roman Borlish state. At the turn of the ninth century it saw an influx of immigration from East Anglia after it was subjugated by Markland.

After an alliance between the First Kingdom of Borland and Angland and the Battle of Fendal (810), Southbar was forced to swear fealty as a subordinate kingdom.

Southbar held out for some time against the Danes after the fall of the First Kingdom of Borland, and even harboured the exiled King Jothey and his wife Brenna of Barrow. Nonetheless, by the end of the tenth century Sothbar had been incorporated into Dane Borland.

In the twelfth century Southbar had become a county. Its de facto seat was Axbane; by 1190 Count Steven is known to have resided year-round in the coastal town, bequeathing the old house in Heitriç to his younger brother.