99.5: Science Quiz

from the 1930 book Prove your Knowledge!, a part of the series Games for Sorties and Excourses. This was a collection of casual party games compiled and published by Merch couple Anna and Ralph Highwater through the Royal Tommarth Castinghouse.

Theory X: Miscellanea (answers on sheet 256)

~1. Which of the following children of Zeus does not give his name to any of the four greater jovial moons?
  (i) Minos, king of Crete
 (ii) Æacos, grandfather of Achilles
(iii) Perseus, who slew the gorgon Medusa
 (iv) Zethos, one of the founding twins of Thebes

~2. A span [wavelength] of five hundred scant-inches [127 nm] marks the legal limit of what sort of œculux [electromagnetic radiation]?

~3. How many mora does an atom of the corporal [chemical element] 'killdark' [uranium] have?
(i) 90
(ii) 92
(iii) 94
(iv) 96

~4. What contemporary astronomical theory is instantiated by the sculpture I Macchine di Helio, carved by Lorenzo dell'Acchedia?

~5. The Branwen Sanatory, the medical research facility where the painkiller zebdomaschal [ibuprofen] was first synthesised, is located in which polity?
(i) Britain
(ii) Hasiny
(iii) Tavancy
(iv) New Leudong

~6. Elsebeth Sneider's 1795 work Through a Black Mirror sparked what literary craze with a theoretical bent?

~7. Which celestial object did astronomer Coscatl bint Inám discover in the mid-nineteenth century?
(i) Minerva [Uranus]
(ii) Ixion [Ceres]
(iii) Janus [Neptune]
(iv) the cisjovial ring [asteroid belt]

~8. Inspired by Rachel Desselut's work in early methodics [programming], the world's oldest self-describing book is kept in which university?

~9. Gurjat theorist Manesh Camdar was the first person to observe the moment of fecundation [fertilisation]; which animal was he studying?
(i) Sea hedgehogs
(ii) Sea sponges
(iii) Damsel flies
(iv) Charon bugs

~10. Which nineteenth-century Merch theorist wrote magnum opus Astraphor and Light, fully characterising plenty [charge] in a single equation?