40.2: batman "vigilante"

batman /batˈman/
- vigilante, one who acts outside the law to right a perceived wrong (often to avenge a murder or similar act of violence);
- mercenary, hitman, one who enacts violence (especially assassinations) for hire;
- warfarer, warrior, combatant, one engaged in warfare as a member of a band of soldiers

Etymology: seventeenth-century clipping of earlier abatman "combatant, mercenary", which descends from Old Boral abat manc/ç "mercenary (band), hired soldier", literally "war-seller". The first element abat "war" is a deverbal noun from abatr "fight, make war" (modern abattr), while the second manc/ç "seller, stall, booth" is of unclear origin.

The status of the final consonant in manc/ç (since lost) is disputed. If palatalised /mants/, the word is thought to reflect Insular Latin manentia "shop, household, inn", nominal derivative of maneō "I stay, remain, spend the night" (compare fenç "split, break" from Latin findentia < findō "I cleave, split"). The alternative theory that it descends from Latin merx "goods, wares" (modern març) is semantically tempting but phonetically implausible.

If instead the word is unpalatalised /mank/, it is generally agreed that it reflects Latin mangō "dealer, seller (of slaves)", either directly from the Latin—although one would expect to see also *mangon < mangōnem—or via the Old English descendant mangian "to trade, traffic in". In either case, the final consonant does not appear anywhere after the eleventh century, perhaps due to influence from the English suffix -man "person, man".

Se poðe noc l'eç rumour d'un batman corroular.
/se poˈðe nɔk lɛts riˈmur dɪn batˈman ˌko.ruˈlar/
[se pʊˈð3 nɔ lɛs ʀɪˈmʊː dɪm bɐtˈman ˌko.ʀʊˈlɑː]
rfl can-ipf neg def-p.px rumour of-indef vigilante verify-inf
The rumours of a vigilante were unsubstantiable.