46.3: descorçar "peer"

descorçar /ˌde.xɔrˈtsar/ [ˌde.xʊːˈtsɑː]
- peer at, eye, to look at deliberately as if with difficulty or apprehension;
- inspect, scrutinise, to examine something with great care or detail;
- (rare, literally) peel, shell, to remove the bark or peel from the surface of a tree or plant

Etymology: originally in the last sense, either a native formation in the Middle Boral period from noun scorç "bark, peel" and prefix de- indicating reversal or movement away, or else a calque of Latin dēcorticō "I remove the bark or peel" formed in the same way.

Metaphorical use is seen almost immediately and by the eighteenth century the verb has almost entirely been supplanted in its literal sense by periphrastic construction scorç delir de "to remove bark/peel from".

Il ern l'imascry descorçant ag cogn jagerrem.
/ɪl ɛrn ˌli.maˈxri ˌde.xɔrˈtsant ɛj kɔjn ʒaˈgɛ.rɛm/
[ɪlɛːn ˌli.mæˈxʀi ˌde.xʊːˈtsant ɛj kɔjn ʝɐˈgɛ.ʀɐm]
3p cop.ipf-3p def=sculpture eye-p.prs at.def corner far-comp
They were peering at the sculpture in the far corner.

## 

46.4: gevou "watch out!"

gevou /geˈvu/ [gɪˈvu]
- (exclamation) watch out, beware, be careful, exhortation to remain safe by acting in a cautious manner;
- forewarning, heads-up, alert of upcoming danger given ahead of time;
- caveat, proviso, stumbling block, an exception or other awkward condition that is worth knowing about and may need working around

Etymology: first in exclamatory usage, borrowed in the seventeenth century from French phrase a gué vous "look out!" (later written together as gué-vous and used as an ordinary noun), literally "to (the) lookout, you!". The noun gué "watchman, vigil, lookout" descends from Old French, borrowed from the Frankish descendant of Classical German vactuō "watch, vigil".

The word's phonetic resemblance to the English word "careful" is coincidental.

Deð lour gevou cant y rafayat revin.
/dɛθ lur geˈvu kant i ˌra.feˈjat reˈvɪn/
[ˈdɛ.lʊː gɪˈvu kan‿ti ˌʀa.fɪˈjat ʀɪˈvɪn]
give-imp.p 3p.obl watch.out while def tailor come.back.sbj
Give them a heads-up if the tailor comes back.
