90.4: star luïscent a "have to do with"

star luïscent a /star ˌlaj.iˈxɛnt a/ [stɑː ˌla.jɪˈçɛn‿ta]
- have to do with, be related to, be relevant to, to have any bearing on (some person, topic, etc)

Etymology: idiom first attested in the fifteenth century, literally "to be playing at" and likely derived via the sense "to be participating in (some activity)". The participle luïscent "playing" comes from luïr "to play", which descends from a late Insular Latin lūdīre, lūdēscere "to play". These are both conjugational regularisations of lūdere in Classical Latin. See also the following idiom involving this construction:

Com es oc luïscent a ney ne Nivon? "What's that got to do with anything?"

...ney ne Nivon /ni ne niˈvɔn/ [ni ne nɪˈvɔn]
- general interjection in response to a perceived non sequitur, cf. English "What's that got to do with the price of fish?"

Etymology: literally "What does this have to do with snow in Japan?", first used in the nineteenth century and of obscure motivation; perhaps just in reference to the unlikelihood of snow in Japan affecting anything in Borland. The noun ney "snow" reflects Latin nix, nivem "snow", while the placename Nivon "Japan" is a sixteenth-century borrowing eventually from 日本, contemporaneously pronounced /niˈɸon/.

My commission hander no's bogr luïscent all'occijon.
/mi ˌkɔ.miˈsjɔn hanˈdɛr nɔz bɔjr̩ ˌlaj.iˈxɛnt aˌlɔk.siˈʒɔn/
[mi ˌkɔ.mɪˈsjɔn hɐnˈdɛː nɔz bɔjɐ ˌla.jɪˈçɛn‿tɐˌlɔk.sɪˈʝɔn]
1s.gen usage sex-adj neg-be at.all play-p.pst at-def=murder
My sex life has nothing to do with the murder.