198.3: Lexember 2025 - 3: beyollir "set"

beyollir /bjɔˈlɪr/ [bjʊˈlɪː]
- set, insert, fit, embed, to affix into a recess or opening (as of a jewel);
- install, build in, to put into a dedicated position during construction;
- slot into, plug in, to place (an outward facing part) into (an opening which it is designed to fit into)

Etymology: Middle Borlish, derivation via the change-of-state suffix -ir, -isc < Latin -ēscō "I become _" from noun beyol "socket, cavity; dimple, divot". This appears to be an Old Borlish backformation from short-lived abiolar "to form a cavity, ?to awl", via Medieval Latin albiolō from Classical alveolus "small hollow; trough, basin". The word has been used for forming electrical connections since the late nineteenth century.

Veleð l'oc smaraut beyollir ne my çondr.
/veˈlɛθ lɔk smaˈrot bjɔˈlir ne mi ˈtsɔn.dr̩/
[vɪˈlɛθ lɔg zmɐˈʀot bjʊˈlɪː ne mi ˈtsɔn.dɐ]
will.sbj-2p df=s.px emerald set-inf in 1s.gn pendant
Please set this emerald into my pendant.

198.4: Lexember 2025 - 4: scið "set"

scið /xɪθ/ [çɪθ]
- known, understood, familiar, recognised, being within one's understanding;
- ordained, determined, having been decided upon by some authority;
- set, fixed, no longer subject to alteration;
- possible, feasible, permissible, being among the options one can or may choose from

Etymology: from Old Borlish scið "known, determined", a direct descendant from Latin scītus "learnt, known, appointed". This was the perfect participle of both sciō "I know" and scīscō "I learn". The last senses reflect the word's Borlish use as the suppletive past participle of poðir "to be able to", whose past tense, imperfect subjunctive and past participle were replaced with forms from sciō in the Old Borlish period. In early use the "fixed" sense was used principally to refer to certain Christian feast days and canonical hours.

Cain entrquïsc n'hour scið par y liesc quic.
/ken ˌɛn.tr̩.kwaˈjɪx nur xɪθ par i ljɛx kwɪk/
[ken ˌɛn.tɐ.kwɐˈʝɪç nʊː çɪθ pɐː‿ʀi ljɛç kwɪk]
fall-3p break in=time set by df term active
Breaks are at set times during the workday.