41.3: orn "order; rowan"

orn /ɔrn/ [ɔːn]
1.
- order, ordering, arrangement, programme, a particular sequence or way of setting out a collect of people, objects or events;
- order, group, troop, band, a number of people in a formal arrangement towards the furthering of some agenda (in particular, playing music or purveying violence or similar aid);
- command, captaincy, power, the position of having authority to require people to do something;
- recipe, program, instructions, algorithm, a list of steps itemising the proper method for achieving some task

Etymology: either from a native Old Boral orne, ordne, "ordering, arrangement" or borrowed from contemporaneous Old French orne, ordre, both reflecting (as a direct descendant or an early semi-learned loan) Latin ōrdō, ōrdinem "arrangement, rank, group, troop, rite". Extended senses almost definitely adapted directly from the Latin reflex in the Middle Boral period (cf. short-lived later borrowing ordin).

Nos luïsceu primer nell'orn.
/nɔz ˌla.jiˈxaw priˈmɛr nɛˈlɔrn/
[nɔz ˌla.ʝɪˈxaw pʀɪˈmɛː nɪˈlɔːn]
1p play-1p first in-def=order
We're first on in the programme.

2.
- mountain ash, rowan, any of several trees in the genus Sorbus, found across Europe and Mendeva;
- (proscribed) ash, tree of the genus Fraxinus (prescriptively, frasn);
- javelin, lance, a light spear thrown with the hand and used as a weapon

Etymology: Direct descendant of Latin ornus "mountain ash, rowan" via the synonymous orne in Old Boral. In the last meaning, a conscious revival of an Old Boral usage which had vanished for centuries.

L'ivan asseye sur y ranscel dell'orn.
/liˈvan aˈsje sɪr i ranˈxɛl dɛˈlɔrn/
[lɪˈvan ɐˈsje sɪː‿ʀi ʀɑnˈçɛw dɪˈlɔːn]
def=child sit-ipf on def branch of-def=ash
The child was sat on the rowan's branch.