9.3: vivirc "leeway"

vivirc /viˈvirk/ [vɪˈvɪːk]
- legroom, breathing space, room to move, adequate space such that one does not feel constrained;
- leeway, latitude, margin, an amount of freedom or flexibility to change to make alternative decisions or to pursue other courses of action, especially any involving only minor alterations to one's present situation or course;
- respite, downtime, a moment between work or other activity for one to recover one's breath

Etymology: of unclear origin, but attested from the fourteenth century in the first sense. Thought to be related to Sothbar dialect term vrikir "to squirm, wriggle", which is a borrowing from Germanic (probably Old Dutch, cf. modern wricke "to pry, wrench").

The first syllable is somewhat problematic; ideophonic reduplication is possible but not otherwise seen in the language. The suggestion of Yaskirç that it descends from Latin via "road, way, route" is not generally credited.

Metaphoric extension to leeway in general and downtime in particular is seen with certainty from the latter half of the seventeenth century, although the development is likely earlier (as the new senses appear in texts from different areas almost simultaneously, implying that they were well-established in the lexicon).

Nos n'arreu magn vivirc neðan y scon vec kiglar.
/no naˈraw mɛjn viˈvirk neˈðan i xɔn vɛk kajˈlar/
[no nɐˈʀaw mɛjɱ vɪˈvɪːk nɪˈðan i xɔɱ vɛk kɐjˈlɑː]
1p neg=have.fut-1p big leeway lest def second bus miss-inf
We won't have much leeway to catch the second bus.